---
title: "The value of personal experiences"

tagnames: 'central-america, barnraiser, storytelling, disaster-response, location:blurred, lon:-88, crisis-convening, barnraising-newark-2018, el-salvador, lat:13'
author: dbsnp
path: /notes/dbsnp/10-30-2018/the-value-of-personal-experiences.md
nid: 17428
uid: 543056

---

![](https://publiclab.org/public/system/images/photos/000/027/368/original/ida.png)

# The value of personal experiences

by [dbsnp](../../../profile/dbsnp) | October 30, 2018 05:28

October 30, 2018 05:28 | Tags: [central-america](../tag/central-america), [barnraiser](../tag/barnraiser), [storytelling](../tag/storytelling), [disaster-response](../tag/disaster-response), [location:blurred](../tag/location:blurred), [lon:-88](../tag/lon:-88), [crisis-convening](../tag/crisis-convening), [barnraising-newark-2018](../tag/barnraising-newark-2018), [el-salvador](../tag/el-salvador), [lat:13](../tag/lat:13)

----

One of the main themes of the Barnraiser in Newark during last summer
was related to the experiences that we all go through when we are 
amidst a natural disaster. This gave us an opportunity to share stories 
among people working on different fronts, so that instead of having 
people bragging about their work saving lives, the Barnraiser craeted a 
safe space to be humans and to share our experiences on the field, as 
well as to admit our shortcomings and to think about what we as a 
society can improve in response to disaster response and relief.

The two biggest lessons that I took from this experience were that 
stories are capable of connecting the persons who are affected by 
natural disasters and those who are willing to help, but most 
importantly, that in the case of natural disasters, regions such as El 
Salvador are not much different from the United States in terms of how 
we experience and feel. The stories that I heard from the attendants to 
the event really resonated with my personal experiences in one of the 
most vulnerable country in the world.

There was a personal story that resonated the most with what I was 
hearing at the Barnraiser, which happened in 2009 during the Ida storm. 
During that year, there was a night on which in just four hours we had 
received the same amount of rain that we would be supposed to receive in
a couple of months. This kind of experiences really makes or breaks 
your sense of social duty, as you have to make a huge decision of 
whether you should stay in and be safe, or go out and do something. It 
also teaches you that disaster response is quite similar to how flight 
attendants remind you that you have to put on your own oxygen mask 
before helping others, in order to support others in these situations, 
you have to keep yourself safe.

The next day after this experience I started connecting with a lot of
friends who were expectant about what was happening to communities we 
had visited or built homes in during the past months or years. This led 
me to going with a group of friends to visit some communities and to 
hear their stories a couple of days laters. In order to do that, we had 
to leave our car parked on the side of the road and jump a broken 
bridge, and ask for a ride on top of a truck that was carrying people 
and food to distribute to the communities. Our experience allowed us to 
talk to people and not only see the actions of other organizations, but 
also their limitations and to be sympathetic to the fact that we can't 
do it all. We learned about how rivers can grow to swallow houses nearby
in less than ten minutes from the stories of the people who lived in 
them, but we were also able to see the water marks on the walls, which 
served to convince a skeptic me on the spot. We also heard stories from 
families who had lost members and hadn't heard from them due to the 
water currents that swept their homes into the night. We saw houses 
upside down close to the beach, and learned about the despair of 
destruction that overtakes families in the area. News reports about 
tragedies took a whole new dimension since that day for us.

After that, I have had different experiences related to disaster 
response in different places and from different perspectives. In some 
cases, I have been right there on the field to support families, such as
at the aftermath of the 2010 earthquake in Haiti. In other cases, I've 
supported other organizations as by gathering supplies for the 2011 12-E
tropical depression in El Salvador. More recently, I've been involved 
in a new type of experience, which is related to talking to families 
before these events occur, case on which our goal is to create awareness
of the need for action, and having a personal experience to share with 
communities helps us resonate with them and with their own lives. Just 
three days ago we had an eureka moment with a urban community after six 
months of working with them, for them to finally admit that floodings 
were a big problem for them. It only took us the patience to be there 
for long enough to wait under rain together for them to say: "we don't 
like walking around here when all the alleys flood". We already knew 
this because we had seen it before, but we needed that this came from 
them, and experiencing a story together became an important step for 
this process.

Many years after the experience of Ida, a group of colleagues in El 
Salvador started working into what later became Reacci√≥n. Our experience
in the subject of resilience has taught us that we need to continue 
going back to communities to assess situations and to discuss with 
affected individuals before offering solutions to their problems, and 
that this is an iterative, ongoing process that cannot stop, despite 
thinking that we have a good solution in our hands, simply because 
stories and personal experiences will never be less important than the 
most advanced technical skills.