---
node: Map showing where you can and can't fly drones
author: ZHughbanks
created_at: 2014-08-16 16:04:50 +0000
timestamp: 1408205090
nid: 11032
cid: 10019
uid: 426158
---



[ZHughbanks](../profile/ZHughbanks) replying to: [Map showing where you can and can't fly drones](../notes/code4maine/08-11-2014/map-showing-where-you-can-and-can-t-fly-drones)

----
http://skyvector.com/

This is the map reference given to me after spending a considerable amount of time finding about about kite flying rules on the phone with the FAA.  In New Orleans, you will go through the Houston office, which will send you over to baton Rouge, who is the regional controller.  The purple circle outlines are the 5 mile radius that is shown around each airport that has a tower, and is in control over that airspace.  Outside the purple boundaries (airport tower control), airplanes fly according to visual rules, and the airspace starts at 1200'.  Within the 5 mile radius, a tethered kite is limited to 150', so by trig, you could have maybe 250' of line out.  Outside the 5 mile limit, you are bound by a 500' ceiling, so maybe 750-800' of line.  Despite these rules, in certain areas, such as the gulf here in Louisiana, although helicopter pilots are flying by line of sight, if you had a kite/ quadcopter interfering with their operations, I'm sure they would report you as a hazard to airmen.  To avoid this, or if you plan on flying above, you must request an exemption in writing to the regional controller who publishes the notice to airmen in your area.

Can kites be flown near the airport ?
FAA Response:14 CFR Part 101 states that...within 5 miles of the boundary of any airport "...No person may operate an unshielded moored balloon or kite more than 150 feet above the surface of the earth unless, at least 24 hours before  beginning the operation, he gives the following information to the FAA ATC facility that is nearest to the place of intended operation: (a) the names and addresses of the owners and operators, (b) the size of the balloon or the size and weight of the kite, (c) the location of the operation, (d) the height above the surface of the earth at which the balloon or kite is to be operated, and (e) the date, time and duration of the operation." There are also additional lighting and marking requirements, if the balloon or kite would be operated above 150 feet above the surface of the earth.
Part 101 also states "(a) no person may operate any moored balloon, kite, unmanned rocket, or unmanned free balloon in a manner that creates a hazard to other persons or their property, and (b) no person operating any moored balloon, kite, unmanned rocket, or unmanned free balloon may allow an object to be dropped there from, if such action creates a hazard to other persons or their property."