---
cid: 10071
node: [Increasing brightness of fluorescence spectra](../notes/warren/08-13-2014/increasing-brightness-of-fluorescence-spectra)
nid: 11047
created_at: 2014-08-19 18:52:52 +0000
timestamp: 1408474372
uid: 58398
author: [ttaylor](../profile/ttaylor)
---

Warren, it's really exciting to see this sort of technology diffusing out of academia. All of your question are interesting, here are a few more thoughts:
1) Seeing that your baseline is almost half of your maximum signal, I wonder how much attention you've paid to isolating the sensor from external light sources? It can really improve your SNR to be very picky and careful about this--e.g. we would tape aluminum foil over all the windows and then black paper/cloth over that. Or is that baseline really the ccd/cmos thermal background?   
2) Extraneous scattering from the laser can be tricky to eliminate as well; a long pass filter just in front of the sensor could help with that.  They're not cheap, here's [one possibility](http://www.thorlabs.com/newgrouppage9.cfm?objectgroup_id=3313&pn=DMLP425T&gclid=CPGbhZL8n8ACFcRAMgodAz4AOw).
3) Adding multiple image captures of the same spectrum (e.g. in ImageJ) might be a cheap hack in place of, or at least for evaluating the benefit of, longer exposures. 
4) By way of lab safety, there is research *suggesting* that the high energy end of the visible spectrum is energetic enough [do damage to your retina](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/High-energy_visible_light); since I tend to be a nerd about lab safety, I might wear a good pair of blue blocker sunglasses while working with this laser.  It would be nice if someone really knowledgeable about this could comment.  

[ttaylor](../profile/ttaylor) replying to: [Increasing brightness of fluorescence spectra](../notes/warren/08-13-2014/increasing-brightness-of-fluorescence-spectra)

