---
node: Mobius Actioncam with WRATTEN 25a filter NDVI analysis on PhotoMonitoring Plugin
author: cfastie
created_at: 2014-08-23 13:03:51 +0000
timestamp: 1408799031
nid: 11072
cid: 10109
uid: 554
---



[cfastie](../profile/cfastie) replying to: [Mobius Actioncam with WRATTEN 25a filter NDVI analysis on PhotoMonitoring Plugin](../notes/silvanhi/08-22-2014/mobius-actioncam-with-wratten-25a-filter-ndvi-analysis-on-photomonitoring-plugin)

----
Silvan,

1. Okay, infraBlueNDVI.lut is the same as NDVIBlu2red.lut 
2. Infragram does not use the luts that are used in Fiji. Infragram uses its own look up tables, and the default is one based on NDVIBlu2Red, but I guess it has magenta in it. Maybe someone who understands infragram.org knows why you got those unhelpful results.
3. Your super-red photo does not look blue enough, and it looks over exposed in the bright areas. The super-red photos that produce the best NDVI images have vegetation with a nice blue hue like the ones in [this note](http://publiclab.org/notes/cfastie/04-24-2014/mobius-white-balance) and [this note](http://publiclab.org/notes/cfastie/04-26-2014/mobius-ndvi). Did you try the Mobius settings in the [screenshot in this note](http://publiclab.org/notes/cfastie/04-26-2014/mobius-ndvi)?
4. Your super-red photo does not have much dynamic range, and the resulting NDVI does not have much dynamic range. So all the foliage in your scene has about the same color and ends up with the same value for NDVI. Many non-foliage things in the photo also have a similar color and end up with similar NDVI values.
5. The wall and tree trunk in your photo are very dark and produce high NDVI values. That is a common artifact. It just happens that some dark areas have very low values for red (e.g., 4) and slightly higher values for blue (e.g., 20) so NDVI computes to a high value. Very dark and very bright areas of super-red or infrablue photos rarely produce reliable NDVI information.
6. In general, single camera NDVI photos must be taken carefully and strategically to get meaningful NDVI results. Exposure, white balance, and scene contrast all have critical impacts on NDVI.
7. When you find a good white balance setting for the Mobius, it should work in Fiji and any other program you use. You should not need separate white balance settings for different analysis protocols. It might be that slightly different white balance settings produce better results under different lighting conditions. 

Chris