---
cid: 10107
node: [Mobius Actioncam with WRATTEN 25a filter NDVI analysis on PhotoMonitoring Plugin](../notes/silvanhi/08-22-2014/mobius-actioncam-with-wratten-25a-filter-ndvi-analysis-on-photomonitoring-plugin)
nid: 11072
created_at: 2014-08-23 02:12:07 +0000
timestamp: 1408759927
uid: 554
author: [cfastie](../profile/cfastie)
---

Hi Silvanhi,

That's a gorgeous landscape. And a great subject for ndvi images. There are a couple of things I don't understand about your results.

1. I don't know what color look-up table you used in the Fiji plugin -- I don't know what infraBlueNDVI.lut is.
2. The NDVI color key you include above is for the lut called NDVIBlu2Red.lut. That lut [can be downloaded here](http://publiclab.org/wiki/photo-monitoring-plugin). That lut does not include magenta, which is present in the NDVI image above it. So that color key does not belong with that NDVI image.
3. You are correct that your results from Infragram.org do not look correct because hotter colors (reds) are representing non plants. I don't know which of several likely explanations is responsible. I think it's possible to apply multiple operations on a photo at the infragram sandbox and produce a meaningless image.  I'm not sure there is a way to revert to the original uploaded photo.


If you include one of the super-red photos from your Wratten 25A Mobius, we might be able to do better troubleshooting. 

In Fiji, right after you produce an NDVI image, if you add about 25 to the value in each pixel (process/math/add) you can slide all the colors in the NDVI image to the right on the NDVI color scale. If you have to do that to get an NDVI image that is meaningful, then the super-red photo from the Mobius might need a different white balance setting for that type of scene.

Chris


[cfastie](../profile/cfastie) replying to: [Mobius Actioncam with WRATTEN 25a filter NDVI analysis on PhotoMonitoring Plugin](../notes/silvanhi/08-22-2014/mobius-actioncam-with-wratten-25a-filter-ndvi-analysis-on-photomonitoring-plugin)

