---
cid: 10169
node: [Palantier: impressive image stitching for UAVs and kites](../notes/warren/2-5-2012/palantier-impressive-image-stitching-uavs-and-kites)
nid: 749
created_at: 2014-09-02 17:07:08 +0000
timestamp: 1409677628
uid: 294634
author: [ajawitz](../profile/ajawitz)
---

This looks interesting- https://github.com/Kitware/maptk 

     MAP-Tk is an open source C++ collection of libraries and tools for making measurements from aerial video. Initial capability focuses on estimating the camera flight trajectory and a sparse 3D point cloud of the scene. These products are jointly optimized via sparse bundle adjustment and are geo-localized if given additional control points or GPS metadata.
     This project has similar goals as projects like Bundler and VisualSFM. However, the focus here in on efficiently processing aerial video rather than community photo collections. Special attention has been given to the case where the variation in depth of the 3D scene is small compared to distance to the camera. In these cases, planar homographies can be used to assist feature tracking, stabilize the video, and aid in solving loop closure problems.
     The MAP-Tk software architecture is highly modular and provides an algorithm abstraction layer that allows seamless interchange and run-time selection of algorithms from various other open source projects like OpenCV, VXL, VisCL, and PROJ4. The core library is light-weight with minimal dependencies (C++ standard library plus some Boost components). The tools are written to depend only on the MAP-Tk core library. Additional capabilites are provided in add-on modules that use 3rd party libraries to implement various abstract algorithm interfaces defined in the core.
     While the initial software implementation relies on batch post-processing of aerial video. Our intent is to move to an online video stream processing framework and optimize the algorithms to real-time performance for use onboard unmanned aerial vehicles.



[ajawitz](../profile/ajawitz) replying to: [Palantier: impressive image stitching for UAVs and kites](../notes/warren/2-5-2012/palantier-impressive-image-stitching-uavs-and-kites)

