---
node: EPA's Advanced Monitoring Tech Demo Day
author: gbathree
created_at: 2014-09-02 02:15:49 +0000
timestamp: 1409624149
nid: 11054
cid: 10161
uid: 53164
---



[gbathree](../profile/gbathree) replying to: [EPA's Advanced Monitoring Tech Demo Day](../notes/donblair/08-14-2014/epa-s-advanced-monitoring-tech-demo-day)

----
I used micro SD when I started out also, but for our applications it just was too slow.  However, we aren't trying to take lots of measurements over a long time, everything we do so far is handheld and cell-phone attached, so SD makes way more sense for you.

So I was thinking for proof of concept to just get the riffle to ouput via serial USB or bluetooth to a computer and/or cell phone.  From there we can use the PhotosynQ backend which is my goal, even though we admittedly lose the long life / low power piece.  At least it would give us a chance to play with a different kind of data and see how it looks.

I believe I have everything which is included at the top of the .ino file (except stdlib is already installed of course):

include <JeeLib.h>
include <Wire.h>
include <SPI.h>
include <SD.h>
include <RTClib.h>
include <RTC_DS3231.h>
include<stdlib.h>

In addition I got the DHT-sensor-library which isn't referenced in the .ino but is in the riffle-ito-apps github page.

Here's what I get - seems like the RTC_DS3231 library isn't right, it's missing classes and redefining stuff...

In file included from riffle_testing.ino:6:
/home/photosynq/arduino-1.0.5/libraries/RTC_DS3231/RTC_DS3231.h:88: error: redefinition of ‘class DateTime’
/home/photosynq/arduino-1.0.5/libraries/RTClib/RTClib.h:10: error: previous definition of ‘class DateTime’
riffle_testing.ino: In function ‘void setup()’:
riffle_testing💯 error: ‘class RTC_DS3231’ has no member named ‘begin’
riffle_testing:102: error: ‘class RTC_DS3231’ has no member named ‘isrunning’
riffle_testing:107: error: ‘class RTC_DS3231’ has no member named ‘adjust’
riffle_testing:115: error: ‘class RTC_DS3231’ has no member named ‘adjust’
riffle_testing.ino: In function ‘void loop()’:
riffle_testing:194: error: ‘class RTC_DS3231’ has no member named ‘getTempAsFloat’

Hey, are you going to the Nov 14th barnstorming?  We were thinking about coming, and I'd love to see a riffle in action!