---
cid: 10298
node: [Using Photosynth to automatically stitch images from kite-mapping](../notes/espero/09-13-2014/using-photosynth-to-automatically-stitch-images-from-kite-mapping)
nid: 11141
created_at: 2014-09-16 14:14:47 +0000
timestamp: 1410876887
uid: 554
author: [cfastie](../profile/cfastie)
---

This is amazing technology that has great potential for application to kite mapping photos. Photosynth.net has been home to two types of image presentation for a few years: the "Photosynths" like the one you have made, and more traditional stitched images made in Microsoft ICE (Windows only, I think). ICE can make reasonably good stitched maps from nadir aerial photos, although there is no ground control, so the scaling and georectification can vary throughout the map [(example)](http://publiclab.org/notes/cfastie/06-22-2014/titan-2-ir).  Overlapping oblique aerial photos can also be stitched into "curved" panoramas which can be viewed at Photosynth.net in a smoothly panning viewer [(example)](https://photosynth.net/view.aspx?cid=1f65dcb9-6c0d-4d84-99e6-ab7569eef21b). Unlike stitched images, Photosynths compute the location of the camera for each photograph from information in the overlaps among photos. When you navigate a Photosynth, the viewer takes you to the camera's location, so you appear to fly over the subject. But you don't see all of the photos at once, and they are not stitched together into one image.

Recently, Microsoft has added a new type of analysis and presentation (https://photosynth.net/preview/). Not only are the camera locations computed for each photo, but the geometry of the subject is determined. This is the "structure from motion" approach which produces a 3D model of the subject with your photos draped over the model. Photosynth has added a new viewer for navigating these 3D models. I have not tried it with aerial photos, but I think I will.

[cfastie](../profile/cfastie) replying to: [Using Photosynth to automatically stitch images from kite-mapping](../notes/espero/09-13-2014/using-photosynth-to-automatically-stitch-images-from-kite-mapping)

