---
node: Air Quality Indoors and in Tent at LEAFFEST 2014
author: cversek
created_at: 2014-09-18 21:01:44 +0000
timestamp: 1411074104
nid: 11151
cid: 10332
uid: 48275
---



[cversek](../profile/cversek) replying to: [Air Quality Indoors and in Tent at LEAFFEST 2014](../notes/cversek/09-18-2014/air-quality-indoors-and-in-tent-at-leaffest-2014)

----
[@donblair](/profile/donblair)

- Yes, it wouldn't be so bad to set up a tent in one's domicile for the purpose of science. 
- It seems like a lot of correlations can be made in order to build a model for the sensor response and vice versa; this would be an interesting subject for a Public Lab sub-community to investigate using open data methods. 
-  Putting the sensor in a terrarium would be an interesting test case, but I'm not sure how much an infragram image would vary over a fews hours or even days. 
- The CO2 sensor is the big-ticket item at $80 (see link in post for source); the Riffle is how ever much you are charging for this app (I got mine for free!); the SHT21 is a few bucks, the optional box is $10, maybe another $10 for cables and weather proof bushings (not on this prototype yet).  I don't think a kit would fair well -  I'm just about providing the resources for interested hobbyists to do-it-themselves.  Maybe custom assembled units could be made for researchers with deeper pockets, a warm feeling about open source, and a tollerance for early stage prototypes. 
- Maybe the next test should be done in an enclosed mush*room*. 

[@mathew](/profile/mathew)

This particular optical sensor is supposed to be factory calibrated, but there is no harm in checking the numbers!  One of the reasons that I did not go with a cheaper [MG811 MOX electrochemical gas sensor module](http://www.dfrobot.com/index.php?route=product/product&product_id=1023), was that it provided only an analog output and was difficult for me to try to calibrate.  While testing the MG811, I sealed it in a container with a known amount of sodium bicarbonate (baking soda) solution and injected an excess of ascorbic acid (could also use vinegar) to cause it to give off CO2.  The problem that I had was that the sensor voltage was not only directly correlated to CO2 but also to water vapor to a high enough degree that the results did not make much sense.  The SodaStream sounds like it might work better than what I tried.  However, this inherent water vapor sensitivity would be even more of an issue in a growroom.  Furthermore, the MOX sensor needs to be held at a high enough temperature to function at all so it drew over 1 watt of power, whereas the optical sensor took more like 0.1 watt.   At the end of the day, Occam's razor prevailed over Uncle Pennybags' monocle.

 