---
node: Graded oils using UV fluorescence
author: stoft
created_at: 2014-09-23 07:35:05 +0000
timestamp: 1411457705
nid: 11173
cid: 10376
uid: 54025
---



[stoft](../profile/stoft) replying to: [Graded oils using UV fluorescence](../notes/mathew/09-23-2014/graded-oils-using-uv-fluorescence)

----
Looks promising. Maybe these are obvious but...
- Pick 3-5 oils, or oil mixtures, as a reference test set -- low to high density -- then use them for every test.
- Prepare the samples in exactly the same way -- to eliminate another variable
- Pick one oil as a reference (mineral?) and adjust the laser setup for a specific signal peak (non clipped -- and that will also likely prevent clipping with other oil signatures) -- then change only the sample ... to eliminate another variable.
- It looks like the curve shapes you measured are similar, in general, to those in the paper -- and, they are all relatively "smooth" curves. You might use this to your advantage:
- Try acquiring a set of values for each curve -- say the signal average for a 20nm width for every 25nm from 400-600nm -- 9 values. Then normalize the data sets (from 3-5 oils) to a common peak value as you'd only be interested in matching curve shapes not intensities.
- If each data set has repeatable ratios (between values within a set for separate measurements of the same oil) then you'd have enough stability and an easy way to match test data with "known" samples by a simple: SUM(ABS(Refs-Meas)) ~= 0 for a match.
- Admittedly, this is assuming there is a strong correlation between curve shape and oil density.
- If different oil types, but with the same density, have subtle curve differences, then that might be approached with an additional observation of some limited part of the spectrum -- though that could be more difficult due to the apparent signal noise.
Cheers, Dave
