---
node: First Infragram cam trials - Primeros ensayos con cámaras Infragram
author: cfastie
created_at: 2014-09-25 19:12:39 +0000
timestamp: 1411672359
nid: 11165
cid: 10433
uid: 554
---



[cfastie](../profile/cfastie) replying to: [First Infragram cam trials - Primeros ensayos con cámaras Infragram](../notes/ivalethia/09-20-2014/first-infragram-cam-trials-primeros-ensayos-con-camaras-infragram)

----
Ivan,
Yes, the plugin to make the file pairs list requires some study. It also requires that you have:

1.  synchronous pairs of VIS and NIR photos
2.  all the VIS photos in one directory and the NIR photos in another directory.
3.  not too many pairs (I think I had trouble with more than 200)
4.  accurate time stamps in the EXIF headers (otherwise it tries to use the file date)
5.  pairs with time stamps that are close to each other (this should not matter but seems to make it work more often)

If you run the plugin and enter the information at the prompts (some obscure at the upper right of the windows) it might work and create a new text file with the filenames and paths of all the pairs. There are three ways to help the plugin find the matches for each pair. If one does not work, another might. If your photo pairs cannot be identified by their time stamps (as is probably the case with yours) you might have to make the text file of the pairs by hand. This is not hard for just a few pairs, but the format of the text file has to be perfect.

It would be good for Ned to add a feature to make the text file from two directories of files, so all you have to do is change the filenames so the two directories sort with the files in the proper order. Then it could work for just a few pairs that might not have matched time stamps. 

Chris