---
node: Question: Can an Infra-Red Modified Camera distinguish between Eelgrass and other Aquatic Flora? 
author: btbonval
created_at: 2014-10-01 19:38:13 +0000
timestamp: 1412192293
nid: 11226
cid: 10484
uid: 43229
---



[btbonval](../profile/btbonval) replying to: [Question: Can an Infra-Red Modified Camera distinguish between Eelgrass and other Aquatic Flora? ](../notes/code4maine/10-01-2014/question-can-an-infra-red-modified-camera-distinguish-between-eelgrass-and-other-aquatic-flora)

----
Part of the issue here would be the IR reflectance of the water's surface (due to the index of refraction of the water/air boundary), which I understand is pretty limiting of IR.

Typically the IR of NDVI is used as a control against a fixed and known system: the sun's emission of both IR and blue (or red) as compared to a plant's reflectance of each. With the water surface in the way of the sun's interface with the plant, normal NDVI might not be helpful.

If you were to bring your own IR source (most likely IR LED) under the water's surface and emit that, you might find that different plant species reflect that light source differently, while plants within the same species have a similar reflectance. Studying in-group versus cross-group differences is precisely what ANOVA is for!

However, if you're just using one color to measure reflectance of a well known source (LED), you might be fine using some frequency of green rather than dealing with IR.

You might be able to fake NDVI at night by shining your own IRGB LEDs or a broad spectrum light underneath the surface of the water. You're still looking to identify plant species rather than individual plant health, so ANOVA would be useful in measuring how dissimilar the readings are between plants within the species and between plants across species.