---
cid: 10488
node: [Question: Can an Infra-Red Modified Camera distinguish between Eelgrass and other Aquatic Flora? ](../notes/code4maine/10-01-2014/question-can-an-infra-red-modified-camera-distinguish-between-eelgrass-and-other-aquatic-flora)
nid: 11226
created_at: 2014-10-01 23:05:46 +0000
timestamp: 1412204746
uid: 554
author: [cfastie](../profile/cfastie)
---

Eelgrass beds in New England have been traditionally mapped using normal color aerial photographs. Apparently the tricks of the trade are to have multiple photo dates throughout the growing season and to have some experience with what eelgrass looks like.  The plants that are most commonly confused with eelgrass are seaweeds (macrophytic algae).  The seasonal phenology of seaweeds can differ from that of eelgrass, making the [multiple photo dates a key methodology]( http://buzzardsbay.org/eelgrass-photo-interpretation.htm). 

Eelgrass is a green flowering plant and its photosynthetic pigments should respond to infrared and visible light just like land plants. Eelgrass grows in a range of water depths from where its leaves float at low tide to where its leaves remain several meters underwater.  Near infrared light is absorbed by water [more than is red light]( http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:Water_absorption_coefficient_large.gif), but there could be enough transmitted through shallow water to add to the color signal from submerged plants.  Having a fourth color band (NIR) could help distinguish eelgrass from other plant and non-plant substrates, but some experimentation would be needed.  In water more than a couple of meters deep, NIR might not add anything to the signal. 


[cfastie](../profile/cfastie) replying to: [Question: Can an Infra-Red Modified Camera distinguish between Eelgrass and other Aquatic Flora? ](../notes/code4maine/10-01-2014/question-can-an-infra-red-modified-camera-distinguish-between-eelgrass-and-other-aquatic-flora)

