---
cid: 10508
node: [NIR and water](../notes/cfastie/10-06-2014/nir-and-water)
nid: 11243
created_at: 2014-10-06 21:11:41 +0000
timestamp: 1412629901
uid: 43229
author: [btbonval](../profile/btbonval)
---

I think part of the problem is that infrared light and visible light (and each subdivision thereof) are reflected differently at the interface of air and water.

When imaging plants in a strictly air-based substrate, you don't have to worry about dispersion. Unfortunatey, the interface of air and water disperses light unequally.

If you were to measure strictly 589nm yellow light, the standard example used to discuss refractivity, you'd not experience any problems with dispersion. If you're measuring both an infrared wavelength and, say that 589nm yellow wavelength, for the purpose of comparing them to each other, then you end up with 8 scenarios that change how your data is going to appear.

Consider these 8 scenarios:

1. the common light source is in the air, the subject is in the air, and the observer is in the air. This is the normal use case for NDVI.
2. the common light source is in the air, the subject is in the air, and the observer is in the water. You're taking picture of land plants lit by the sun with an underwater camera for some reason.
3. the common light source is in the air, the subject is in the water, and the observer is in the air. Photographing aquatic plants using the sun and a dry camera as suggested here.
4. the common light source is in the air, the subject is in the water, and the observer is in the water. Underwater photography of underwater plants using the sun.
5. the common light source is in the water, the subject is in the air, the observer is in the air. Now we're getting silly.
6. the common light source is in the water, the subject is in the air, the observer is in the water. Silly again.
7. the common light source is in the water, the subject is in the water, the observer is in the air. Capturing an underwater plant using underwater LEDs or bulb with a dry camera.
8. it's all under the water.

The first and last are the only two that are directly relatable using different wavelength comparison (like NDVI), because there is no water/air interface to speak of to cause dispersion.
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Refractive_index#Dispersion

The scenarios where the camera is underwater but the subject is above water (2 and 6) will be hampered by total internal reflection of light traveling from under the water to up in the air.
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Total_internal_reflection#Examples_in_everyday_life

I'm not going to analyze each scenario, but if you consider each, you'll find that the interface between water and air is really going to change how much IR versus how much other colors are present. If you were to come up with some fixed thresholds for comparison between plant species in scenario 1, those values would get totally messed up when applying the thresholds to data captured in scenario 3.

It's not to say you cannot photograph aquatic plants using the sun with a camera above the water. It's to say that such data is not comparable to similar data collected of land plants on land. So if you do try to capture data across a barrier which causes dispersion, know that your data is not comparable to similar data captured where no such barrier existed. You can't use NDVI on underwater plants and discuss it as you would NDVI of land plants. The intrinsic quality of the data would be different.

[btbonval](../profile/btbonval) replying to: [NIR and water](../notes/cfastie/10-06-2014/nir-and-water)

