---
node: Calibrating raw images - a step toward JPEG calibration?
author: zamudio
created_at: 2014-10-03 19:15:16 +0000
timestamp: 1412363716
nid: 10607
cid: 10504
uid: 429341
---



[zamudio](../profile/zamudio) replying to: [Calibrating raw images - a step toward JPEG calibration?](../notes/nedhorning/06-23-2014/calibrating-raw-images-a-step-toward-jpeg-calibration)

----
Ned, I have been working in the spectrometry field for many years and have been involved in calibrating various hyperspectral sensors. I plan on using cameras to look at veg so I searched to find what folks were doing with regard to calibration.  That's how I came across your work. As I have read through your posts I noted the progression I expected - from going to different types of objects to cards of various gray levels. And also increasing consideration of what wavelengths each channel is actually sensing. The fact that the visible channels are also sampling NIR is a bummer. What you are doing is what we call Empirical Line Method of calibration in the remote sensing world.  By the way - good job on getting Mary Martin to take reflectance measurements for you. I'm fortunate to have a field spectrometer for my business.  So I plan on using it before each collection if possible. One thing I will mention is that healthy vegetation (with good leaf structure) is a very efficient scatterer of NIR wavelengths in particular (more so than red, green, and blue wavelengths).  So any object near vegetation will have extra NIR wavelengths scattered on it.  In my experience with NDVI values with Landsat etc., a typical value between veg and non veg is often about 0.3. 
Cheers,
Joe