---
node: DIY Touchtable with Wii Remote
author: PlaceMatters
created_at: 2012-07-19 15:01:05 +0000
timestamp: 1342710065
nid: 610
cid: 1058
uid: 140
---



[PlaceMatters](../profile/PlaceMatters) replying to: [DIY Touchtable with Wii Remote](../notes/placematters/5-5-2011/diy-touchtable-wii-remote)

----
<strong>Notes on Projectors</strong>
We currently have 11 touchtables for large events and a consortium of touchtable owners making it possible for us to host events with up to 30 tables. We have experimented with a half dozen different projectors in our quest for the optimal combination of portability, brightness, durability, and cost. The latest laser/LED hybrids are our favorites.  Currently we have 9 CASIO Slimline projectors (8 <a href="http://www.newegg.com/Product/Product.aspx?Item=N82E16824124008">XJ-A235</a>'s and one <a href="http://www.projectorpeople.com/projectors/projdtls.asp?itemid=26150&itmname=Casio+XJ%2DA255V">XJ-A255V</a>) and 2 <a href="http://www.officemax.com/technology/projectors-accessories/business-projectors/product-prod3170280">EPSON 1760W</a> projectors.
1.	The Casio projectors are fairly nice for compactness and durability. They are a little quirky, however, around zoom and focus. If you ever find the projector unable to focus correctly, I have found you need to zoom in or out a tad and then use the focus.  For some reason this fixes the problem.
2.	Their highest end projector is 3K lumens (Casio XJ-A255V) with 1280X800 resolution priced around $1500. For PC's they have the option to show your slides wirelessly, without needing cables. I’m hoping this option will become available on a Mac soon. Several of our tables use the (Casio XJ-A235), which is only 2000 lumens but $600 cheaper.

Someone recently asked some comparative notes on the two projectors:
1.	The CASIO is heavier (partly because it has a metal case, which means it is probably a tad more rugged). EPSON, lighter on the shoulder
2.	The EPSON has better mounts on the bottom (better for the mono/tripod setup).  
3.	The CASIO has better remote functionality than the 1760 (which has manual focus/zoom only). Got the impression 1770 focus and zoom works with remote
4.	the EPSON has a wider angle lens producing a larger image closer to the screen.
5.	Both are about the same brightness but the EPSON seems to have trouble with the full picture being in focus if you use Keystone to its fullest
6.	I get the impression the wireless feature of the 1770 works with macs, while wireless on the CASIO only works in PC mode
7.	The EPSON built-in lens cap is better than CASIO’s magnetic slap on cap.
8.	The carrying case for the CASIO is slightly higher quality
9.	The CASIO fan is quieter than the EPSON fan (slightly)
10.	The CASIO has a high altitude setting to make sure it does not over heat in the thinner air (don't know how important that is but nice to have given we're based in Denver)
11.	The CASIO menu options are slightly more intuitive.

Final word – both are great projectors, you really can't go wrong.  

Note: we have no connection to EPSON, CASIO, or any of the vendors links I provide above. If you're going to buy a projector, search around for the best deals. The review components of this write-up are not intended to be comprehensive, I am simply sharing my observations after experimenting with several projectors.   
