---
cid: 10665
node: [Aerial Balloon Mapping in Amherst, MA](../notes/aferland/10-21-2014/aerial-balloon-mapping)
nid: 11287
created_at: 2014-10-30 01:14:03 +0000
timestamp: 1414631643
uid: 170271
author: [cschweik](../profile/cschweik)
---

Hi Chris. Thanks for your continued interest in our project. We've got some ideas on trying to use photoshop to extract out water chestnut. We'll see how it works. We'll do that after we georeference one of the NIR images we have.

Yes, the RGB camera is shot. We've learned a lesson there. It was pretty calm when we first went out in the canoe and we wanted to do that to get away from the trees, like we did in Lake Warner last year. But just when the students were out in the middle and starting to deploy a big burst of wind came and pushed the balloon down and the rig dipped into the water 3 times. I tried drying out the camera but it appears shot. 

We have been asked to do a flight for the town of Amherst so I would like to get another camera that works with the titan rig. If I buy one on Ebay, how hard is it to load your script for the timer?

Also, we tried flying the full rig but maybe we didn't put enough helium in. We had a hard time getting it to lift it, which is why we turned to one camera lifts. I have a hard time knowing when it is time to stop filling the balloon. I worry about popping. I think the Public Lab balloon kits should include an extra balloon to help avoid that stress.

Thanks for your ongoing interest in our projects.

Cheers
Charlie

[cschweik](../profile/cschweik) replying to: [Aerial Balloon Mapping in Amherst, MA](../notes/aferland/10-21-2014/aerial-balloon-mapping)

