---
cid: 10809
node: [First draft on architecture of Sensor plugins, Reservoir plugins, and Pipes for the Open Pipe Kit](../notes/rjstatic/11-19-2014/first-draft-on-architecture-of-sensor-plugins-reservoir-plugins-and-pipes-for-the-open-pipe-kit)
nid: 11370
created_at: 2014-11-21 18:54:37 +0000
timestamp: 1416596077
uid: 425914
author: [neilh20](../profile/neilh20)
---

I haven't much knowledge of the "framework: to understand this thread - other than I develop sensors and then visualize the readings  via the cloud.

I would ask of the framework: 

how can it be made into a server for sensors?

how do autonomous sensor sample events get processed? - both from autonomous sampling, autonomous data sheet registry - and provisioning feedback to autonomous sensors.

For the modern sensor, M2M/IoT, it  is independentky powered entity with power management as a critical design characteristic - it typically powers up, push its sample onto a pervasive internet via a local (wireless) gateway - to be eventually accessed and visualized. In between sampling events its critical to minimize power and shutdown - ie not listen.

For one product to do this I used an XBP-gateway, that created a tcp/ip tunnel through the internet to a server. That is the gateway XBP was always on connected to a cloud server. When the XBP-sensor wakes up, it broadcasts its sample packet, that travels through the tunnel to the cloud server, its entered into a MySql database, and then an ack travels back down the tunnel to the XBP-gateway that broadcasts to the XBP-sensor, which then marks the sample internall as 'delivered'. All usually within 1 second. 

So manage its available power the XBP-sensor does the following, if it can't detect the XBP-gateway within a second it turns off, and if there isn't a response from the server withing 4 seconds it turns off. It retries every 15minutes.

[neilh20](../profile/neilh20) replying to: [First draft on architecture of Sensor plugins, Reservoir plugins, and Pipes for the Open Pipe Kit](../notes/rjstatic/11-19-2014/first-draft-on-architecture-of-sensor-plugins-reservoir-plugins-and-pipes-for-the-open-pipe-kit)

