---
cid: 10808
node: [First draft on architecture of Sensor plugins, Reservoir plugins, and Pipes for the Open Pipe Kit](../notes/rjstatic/11-19-2014/first-draft-on-architecture-of-sensor-plugins-reservoir-plugins-and-pipes-for-the-open-pipe-kit)
nid: 11370
created_at: 2014-11-21 17:12:52 +0000
timestamp: 1416589972
uid: 174
author: [rjstatic](../profile/rjstatic)
---

I created a [Wiki page](http://publiclab.org/wiki/open-pipe-kit-architecture) to reflect our most recent ideas, feel free to edit it.

> a "clogged pipe" - there needs to be some [optional]? timeout mechanism

Good point. Perhaps a `timeout` property on Sensors and Reservoirs that the Engine can use as a guideline of when to slap around the Sensors/Reservoirs.

> "miniumum [sic]".

Fixed.

> human friendly types and units of times

Sounds good if we can figure out how to make that easy for the user. My fear would be that we tell them they can do something like "5m 31seconds" and then they do "1hour 5seconds" in some combination we didn't expect and it breaks the program. I suppose that's our challenge for this though, make it as easy as possible so supporting any kind of expression of time might be something we should work on.

> Where do those nice long hashy pipeIDs come from?

I was thinking a computer would write that JSON file and create a GUID for each entry, but users may just do it themselves and need to remember to put a locally unique ID in there.

> Internet connected systems can usually sync their clocks with a time server, but what about outages and off the grid local networks?

In the past I've used the [RasClock module](http://afterthoughtsoftware.com/products/rasclock). It occurs to me now the [GrovePi board](http://www.dexterindustries.com/GrovePi/) and the RasClock board may mess with each other, something to look into but not a problem for Pipe devices getting data from Arduinos over USB serial.  

>  Another feature that I've (pipe) dreamed about is the ability to send timely (and back-dated) annotations into the flow using a mobile device browser interface - some sort of markdown would be sweet.

Sounds cool. In that case the sensor is the human in the Pipe :). But maybe we don't actually program it that way.


[rjstatic](../profile/rjstatic) replying to: [First draft on architecture of Sensor plugins, Reservoir plugins, and Pipes for the Open Pipe Kit](../notes/rjstatic/11-19-2014/first-draft-on-architecture-of-sensor-plugins-reservoir-plugins-and-pipes-for-the-open-pipe-kit)

