---
node: Kite Mapping in Vancouver - Take 3
author: cfastie
created_at: 2014-12-02 03:13:48 +0000
timestamp: 1417490028
nid: 11415
cid: 10884
uid: 554
---



[cfastie](../profile/cfastie) replying to: [Kite Mapping in Vancouver - Take 3](../notes/MelissaN/12-01-2014/kite-mapping-in-vancouver-take-3)

----
Melissa,

Those photos are great. Good color and perfect exposure. The skewing adds much excitement, and adds a lot to my knowledge of phone cameras. Even though some of those photos were shot with very fast shutter speeds (e.g., faster than 1/700 second) there was still much distortion caused by the rolling shutter. This suggests that there is not much you can do about that when the camera is moving a lot. The image is constructed one line at a time and records the motion that happens during the scan. I am surprised that such fast shutter speeds showed so much motion, but the phone camera probably does not have an actual shutter, and maybe the electronic scan is not really as fast as it says it is (maybe each line gets exposed for 1/700 second, but the entire scan takes longer). 

Most current phone cameras probably have similar CMOS sensors and rolling shutters and will produce similar results. Older point and shoot cameras used CCD sensors with global shutters so never show the skewing effect. Newer point and shoots have CMOS sensors, and some have rolling shutters, but the better ones seem to avoid the dramatic skewing somehow. 

The ultimate solution is to avoid really windy days so the camera is not moving so much. It looks like it was rather windy that day. Lifting a camera does not require much wind, and less wind can mean less camera movement. The sweet spot of kite photography is "slack line" kiting, when the camera just floats. Even on such days, I usually lock the shutter speed high and let the aperture vary for correct exposure. Tina Timelapse was doing the opposite on your flight. The f-stop was always 2.6 (all the way open) and the shutter speed varied from slower than 1/300 second to faster than 1/700 second. But it would not have been possible for your phone to find a fast enough shutter speed to compensate for the camera motion that day. 

The impressive thing is your commitment to figuring out how to do it and the fast progress you have made. It will be great to get others involved, but I applaud the approach of learning how to do it before trying to introduce others to the process. After three years of kite photography, I barely feel ready to show others how to do it. For example, I now know that windy days are NOT a good time to fly kites. A steady little breeze is all you need if you have the right kite. And it is SO much easier to reel it in (although it's still nice to have somebody to help).

Chris