---
node: Detection of Distilled Spirit Adulteration (with water) Using Visual Light Spectroscopy
author: cfastie
created_at: 2014-12-10 15:03:33 +0000
timestamp: 1418223813
nid: 11444
cid: 10923
uid: 554
---



[cfastie](../profile/cfastie) replying to: [Detection of Distilled Spirit Adulteration (with water) Using Visual Light Spectroscopy](../notes/ygzstc/12-09-2014/detection-of-distilled-spirit-adulteration-with-water-using-uv-vis-spectroscopy)

----
I proclaim this study to be [highly replicable](http://publiclab.org/notes/cfastie/12-05-2014/reproducibility), and encourage others to reproduce Yagiz's results. Not that we should have any doubts about Yagiz's work, although he never mentioned what happened to all that bourbon and water.

The area under the curve approach at selected wavelength ranges seems to be a very robust way to make this type of comparison. I have been wondering about doing absorbance spectroscopy with a camera that always uses automatic exposure control. The more diluted samples of bourbon absorb less light, so when compared to pure bourbon, their spectra should be brighter. But the camera adjusts for each image so the average brightness of all the spectra will be about the same. Therefore standard absorbance spectroscopy is not really possible. In that approach, the pure bourbon spectra would be subtracted from the  diluted sample spectra, and the difference would be the difference in absorbance. This won't work when the camera adjusts the spectra for all the samples. Yagiz's approach seems to solve that problem. 

Yagiz, is this why you used this approach? Or is this approach a standard way to compare absorbance spectra?

Great note,
Chris