---
node: Measurements on the MultispeQ beta, soon to be released
author: gbathree
created_at: 2014-12-12 17:49:43 +0000
timestamp: 1418406583
nid: 11451
cid: 10938
uid: 53164
---



[gbathree](../profile/gbathree) replying to: [Measurements on the MultispeQ beta, soon to be released](../notes/gbathree/12-12-2014/measurements-on-the-multispeq-beta-soon-to-be-released)

----
Phew - Ok, talked with Dave about it to confirm about the reflectance contribution piece, here's my response:

First, yes I think it is misleading to say this picture is describing in any significant way chlorophyll fluorescence, so I'll stop doing that (sorry)!  As you said, most of the IR seen in leaves here is just old fashioned reflectance and dispersion on the leaves.  That IR by itself doesn't really tell us anything about photosynthesis.  I'll replace that image with an image from here in the lab of chlorophyll fluorescence of plants in the chambers which is just the fluorescence response.

Just to clarify, what we are measuring with the MultispeQ is the portion of the IR which the plant is fluorescing (a very small portion of the effect seen above).  We can pull out this small portion by pulsing light on the surface of the plant, and using electronic filtering to remove any background IR from the environment.  In addition, any reflectance based IR caused by our pulsing LEDs has been minimized (by choosing LEDs with minimal IR signature) and accounted for (by using some fancy calibration schemes).

To confuse this even further is the NDVI measurement, which also has little to do with either things described above.  In it, you take an image using a 650nm wavelength bandpass filter (so filter everything but 650nm).  This wavelength corresponds to greenness of the leaf (which relates to N and chlorophyll content).  In addition, take an image using a 940nm bandpass filter which is a kind of measure of canopy density or leaf thickness, but it's really just acting just as a calibration factor.  The 650 bandpass is doing the real work.

Thanks Chris for pushing to resolve this, it's an important point.  If there's anything else you think is off, please post and I'll see if I can give or find and answer or fix it if we're wrong!