---
node: My experience of building and using a spectrometer based on the Public Lab design
author: MrBumper
created_at: 2014-12-22 13:02:28 +0000
timestamp: 1419253348
nid: 11488
cid: 10987
uid: 432766
---



[MrBumper](../profile/MrBumper) replying to: [My experience of building and using a spectrometer based on the Public Lab design](../notes/MrBumper/12-20-2014/my-experience-of-building-and-using-a-spectrometer-based-on-the-public-lab-design)

----
Hi Chris,
Thanks for the tip on dark material and your findings on grating orientation. The internet really is killing bricks and mortar retail, I went to one of the biggest fabric shops in central London the other day to buy some black velvet. They had none in stock! This seems to happen to me almost every time I go out to a shop to buy something.

Were you working with holographic film or was this with DVD material? I can see any difference not being apparent with the film since it is quite thin. As I said, there probably is a best way round in theory, but it may not matter too much in practice. 

I think I will cotinue to experiment and try to work out how the theory applies to the basic PL design of the spectrometer. I shall get some new batteries for my laser pointer today and then I can more easily measure diffraction angles and see where the light actually goes when you pass it through a grating. 

I have now tried the Sanmtech camera that comes with the PL kit and there would appear to be absolutely no problem with focussing. It will easily focus all the way down to 25mm or less. You need 90mm for the PL kit, so no problem there. It does work with the Gucview camera control application, although the camera has no exposure control. A shame really, I have found the exposure control on the Logitech C310 to be very useful in getting good captures. I am aiming on completing the PL Spectrometer kit build today and will then compare it with my 'black box' build. 