---
cid: 10993
node: [Growing the Public Lab Software Development Community](../notes/justinmanley/12-21-2014/growing-the-public-lab-software-development-community)
nid: 11490
created_at: 2014-12-23 05:40:06 +0000
timestamp: 1419313206
uid: 421556
author: [justinmanley](../profile/justinmanley)
---

[@btbonval](/profile/btbonval), [@warren](/profile/warren) - thanks both for your comments!

[@btbonval](/profile/btbonval) - I think you're probably right about the distinction between GitHub issues and plots-dev.  Merging them with IFTTT might indeed more of a burden than a benefit.  That said, it's been useful for me to think about the difference between plots-dev and gh-issues; I think that we should make our best effort to keep plots-dev for general development discussion, and direct all issue complaints, etc. to GitHub.

I think it's great that you already find people creating GitHub accounts just to report issues!  Perhaps it might help with this if there is a PL wiki page / article on the internet that we can direct non-technical folks to that will tell them what GitHub is and how to set up a GitHub account, as well as instructions on how to file a good GitHub issue.  Again, I come back to the issue of audience - I'm very aware that the PL community is largely non-technical, and so we need to be very careful to think about GitHub, etc. from the perspective of the non-technical user.

Re: your comment about reducing application-specific plots2 code - sounds good to me!  The first step may be flagging some areas in the plots2 codebase that are ripe for this kind of refactoring. I would suggest opening a GitHub issue on the plots2 repo when you get a chance.  That issue can then serve as a place for folks to note potential areas for refactoring.

Personally, I don't think that the issue is that software folks don't care about Public Lab's cause.  I think it's that the word hasn't gotten out in the technical community b/c PL programming, etc. has been mostly focused towards the environmental community, not the technical community (i.e. sponsoring hackathons, etc).

[justinmanley](../profile/justinmanley) replying to: [Growing the Public Lab Software Development Community](../notes/justinmanley/12-21-2014/growing-the-public-lab-software-development-community)

