---
node: Grating angle: DVD+R
author: MrBumper
created_at: 2014-12-24 01:56:03 +0000
timestamp: 1419386163
nid: 5964
cid: 10999
uid: 432766
---



[MrBumper](../profile/MrBumper) replying to: [Grating angle: DVD+R](../notes/cfastie/2-12-2013/grating-angle-dvdr)

----
I don't know if this will clarify anything, but I'm finding using a laser beam from a red laser pointer quite useful in examining what goes on with these gratings. Since it provides quite a coherent beam of light it eliminates the question of beam spread from a slit. Of course the laser must be observed by relflecting it off a 'screen' surface. It's not a good idea to be pointing it into a camera or an eyeball. 

I have samples of 500 lpmm and 1000 lpmm holographic film and of course pieces of a split DVD-R. The laser approach is used in a presentation available on the internet from schools and the Georgia Institute of Technology, where they measure the dispersion angles for CD and DVD. The track pitch of a 4.7GB DVD-R is 0.74 microns which gives a line spacing of 1,351 lpmm (CD is 625 lpmm) and the GIT experiments showed that firing a laser beam through with the CD and DVD at right angles to the beam showed a diffracted dot on either side of the main beam at 25.3 degrees for the CD and at the quite extreme angle of 64.8 degrees for the DVD. I have roughly repeated their experiment and these angles seem about right. Twisting the grating away from normal appears to spread the beam spot on one side and compresses it on the other. Spreading the beam a little would effectively allow higher definition spectra.

Comparing the CD and DVD material to the 500 and 1000 lpmm holographic film, the diffraction angles aren't as extreme, at 19 degrees for the 500 lpmm and 36 degrees for the 1,000 lpmm.

The diagram at the top of this thread is interesting because it shows the beam paths exactly as they would be for the laser angle measurement experiment. The difference is the direction is reversed. The camera is where the laser would be (it's appears to be only a little off being at a right angle to the grating) and the slit is where the diffraction angle observation would be made. Of course it doesn't make any difference to the light path which way round things are (I have checked with the laser and if you shine it at 36 degrees to the surface of the 1000 lpmm holo film, a dot appears on the other side showing a beam at right angles to the film). I think you would get much the same results if you set the grating at right angles to the beam from the slit and placed the camera at around 65 degrees, which would agree with the resuts of the diffraction angle measurement experiment.

With the tightly collimated beam from the laser it doesn't really make any difference what the distance between the laser pointer and the grating is. The two diffracted beams still appear at the same angle and beam spread on either side of the main beam.

BTW I think the difference in angles between the holographic film and the DVD are not just because the DVD has slightly tighter line spacing. There are apparently two profiles used for diffraction gratings - one with a sine wave like cross section (only perhaps sometimes with steeper verticals) and a sawtooth like cross section which is known as 'blazed' or echelette grating. Blazed gratings provide maximum efficiency at a particular wavelength determined by the blaze angle. The first comment in this thread speculates on the effect of blaze angle, but a CD-R or DVD-R most closely resembles the 'sine' type of grating, not a blazed grating. Most holographic gratings are sinusoidal. The large difference in diffraction angle between the DVD-R and the 1,000 lpmm holographic film will in part be due to the line spacing difference, but I think the groove depth is deeper for the DVD and that explains its rather extreme diffraction angle.

In the Public Lab kit design the wooden block angle is around 50 degrees and the slit is placed a little below the positon of the lens, so again the angle of around 65 for the DVD-R diffraction angle is met. 