---
cid: 11008
node: [Low-cost multimeter colorimeter](../notes/jakemartin/12-01-2014/low-cost-multimeter-colorimeter)
nid: 11414
created_at: 2014-12-30 04:49:50 +0000
timestamp: 1419914990
uid: 422965
author: [jakemartin](../profile/jakemartin)
---

Here is the paper I was thinking of and it is an open paper so everyone should be able to read it.
http://www.mdpi.com/1424-8220/8/4/2453
There is a section on using LEDs as detectors as well.

Another paper (Dasgupta, P. K.; Eom, I.-Y.; Morris, K. J.; Li, J. Anal. Chim. Acta 2003, 500, 337–364.) which isn't open unfortunately shows a more advanced circuit that uses an opamp to convert a photocurrent from the LED to a voltage and I think it amplifies the signal also.
<a href="https://i.publiclab.org/system/images/photos/000/008/546/original/LED_circuit.tiff"><i class="icon icon-file"></i> LED_circuit.tiff</a>
They reported "As indicated in Section 4, the ability of three photodiodes connected in parallel as fluorescence sensors were initially tested with three different amplifiers (TL082, OPA627 and INA121, all from [155]) with 100nM fluorescein as analyte, resulting in S/N values of 1, 2, and 3, respectively. Compared to this, the PMT provided an S/N value of 35, even in this preliminary testing. As such, we report here fluorescence data mea- sured only with the PMT sensor. For a tighter budget or for pedagogic purposes, photodiode detection of fluorescence still provides sub-microMolar detection of com- mon fluorescent dyes with the instrumentation ampli- fier chip (INA121 is ca. US$ 5 each). If the ultimate in detection limits are not an issue, multicomponent fluorescence detection may actually benefit from a photodiode array where the array elements are individually read and are provided with different optical filters"

So it looks like they might be sensitive enough and if not then a silicon photodiode with a filter and opamp would give better resolution. They also note in the first paper I referenced the lack of use of LEDs as detectors due to sensitivity issues so it all depends on the minimum amount of oil that can be detected.


[jakemartin](../profile/jakemartin) replying to: [Low-cost multimeter colorimeter](../notes/jakemartin/12-01-2014/low-cost-multimeter-colorimeter)

