---
node: Calibrating DIY NIR cameras – part 1
author: nedhorning
created_at: 2015-01-09 00:57:19 +0000
timestamp: 1420765039
nid: 9509
cid: 11031
uid: 133
---



[nedhorning](../profile/nedhorning) replying to: [Calibrating DIY NIR cameras – part 1](../notes/nedhorning/10-21-2013/calibrating-diy-nir-cameras-part-1)

----
Hi - Using a field spectroradiometer for getting reflectance values of targets is a good idea. It would probably be best if you can take reflectance measurements periodically throughout the day but it should be critical if you don't since reflectance (assuming that is what you will measure with the spectroradiometer) should change with different illumination. There are a lot of caveats with that statement mostly due to the fact that your camera is recording very broad bands in the red, green, and blue channels. Anyway it would be a good experiment to test how important it is to take periodic reflectance measurements. 

If you are recording radiance instead of reflectance with the spectroradiometer then you will need to take frequent measurements since radiance is directly related to incident light intensity. 

Sun angle can have an impact. To reduce sun angle effects it's best if the entire scene being imaged has the same sun-target geometry but if that's just about impossible when imaging vegetation (the blades of grass or tree limbs/leaves are angled in many different directions) but you can try to do the best you can. I would also suggest that you take the photos either from nadir (camera aimed straight down) or from and oblique angle  with the camera pointing 90 degrees on either side (+ or -) of the solar azimuth angle. 