---
node: DIY Kit Design Strategies for participation
author: mathew
created_at: 2015-01-15 19:45:35 +0000
timestamp: 1421351135
nid: 11520
cid: 11044
uid: 4
---



[mathew](../profile/mathew) replying to: [DIY Kit Design Strategies for participation](../notes/liz/01-13-2015/diy-kit-design-strategies-for-participation)

----
I think [@cfastie](/profile/cfastie)'s point about raw materials being a problem for crafty objects is certainly true.  The dividing line is fuzzy between repurposing and crafting, and the accessibility of those approaches.

I would say that the ability of someone with minimal tools to modify the object is an important factor.  Even if we ship a complicated cardboard/paper thing, its a lot easier to modify than a metal conduit box.  also, it seems more people are comfortable with tape and scissors than going to the hardware store and buying extension parts ala Ebert. 

The specialness of materials reaches back to the modifiability question, but also to the ease of access issue that Chris brings up-- how easy is it to get the materials?  The version of the paper desktop spectrometer I showed at the Barnraising was designed to be able to be cut at home out of 8.5"x11" construction paper and standard thickness cardboard. That wasn't very durable though, and most folks felt it too fragile. Based on that feedback we're going to make a custom box out of a thicker cardstock that is far more rigid.  But that means using bigger pieces of  some rather fancy paper.   that said, a lot of the components will be accessible and easy to cut from construction paper, and we're going to ship a piece of fancy black cardstock with it too. 
