---
cid: 1105
node: [Spectrometer Kickstarter script](../notes/warren/8-1-2012/spectrometer-kickstarter-script)
nid: 3063
created_at: 2012-08-01 15:27:32 +0000
timestamp: 1343834852
uid: 1
author: [warren](../profile/warren)
---

So Chris F has been offering some good feedback and I am leaning towards doing a very cheap cardboard cutout spectrometer and a more expensive injection-molded or 3d-printed one... the tough part is that we cant do those processes unless we have a lot of backers, so there's a certain threshold we need to meet. 3d printing costs ~$10-20 each depending on how it's done, and that's just at cost. Injection molding takes around $5-10k absolute minimum just to get started, but per-unit cost is much lower, say, $1-3 ? These are just ballpark figures.

As to the iPhone/Android thing, I am very opinionated about the closed iOS system and so i'm conflicted -- although it's easier and more open to develop just for Android (which is why i did it first) I do want to help people who have iOS devices. But it feels "wrong" to set that up as an "extra reward" as if to cast an iOS version as "even better" which I strongly believe it is not. Still, the main reason I am thinking of having a cutoff is that I only want to devote the time if there is a strong demand. This may also drive people to get the word out more. 

Anyhow i'm all up in the air on this and haven't made any final decisions. Any input is appreciated and there's still some time while I'm finishing up the video.

[warren](../profile/warren) replying to: [Spectrometer Kickstarter script](../notes/warren/8-1-2012/spectrometer-kickstarter-script)

