---
cid: 11056
node: [sketching a waterproof pop bottle sensor system](../notes/mathew/01-16-2015/sketching-a-waterproof-pop-bottle-sensor-system)
nid: 11528
created_at: 2015-01-18 17:37:17 +0000
timestamp: 1421602637
uid: 554
author: [cfastie](../profile/cfastie)
---

This is a good definition of the problem:

` "..sensors be exchanged easily between bottles and; caps seal between sensors and bottles with cheap, off the shelf things."  `

This suggests that two ports will have to be made waterproof: one for a large opening to pass the electronics into and out of the bottle, and one for the cables to the sensors. 

Your design has not two but three areas of contact where leakage can occur: inside the brass pipe, between the pipe and the bung, and between the bung and the bottle. There is probably a good design that has only two areas of potential leakage.  

The sensor cable port is easier to make waterproof because it can be permanently sealed. The port to get the electronics in and out is harder because it has to open and close easily.

Two of the contact areas in your design are easy to seal. The long pipe is a great idea because if you figure out how to fill the entire thing with goop it will be pretty reliable. The contact between the pipe and the bung can probably be made to seal well because it can be permanently gooped and/or because the bung will exert inward pressure if it is jammed into a hole.

The contact between the bung and the bottle opening is the weak link. Bottles vary and some will seal better than others. Some bottle necks might not be strong enough to tolerate jamming the bung in securely. The seal could be improved with grease, and made more reliable if the screw-on cap can be screwed on securely holding the bung in place. Are the caps strong enough and reliable enough for this?

Is a flimsy water bottle the right container for this job? It's bigger than it needs to be and the body plastic is a lot thinner than it should be to survive some outdoor deployments. The fact that it is cutely appropriate is nice. It's also good that it is free, but spending $10 for a smarter housing might be quite appropriate since there will probably be a $150+ gadget inside.




[cfastie](../profile/cfastie) replying to: [sketching a waterproof pop bottle sensor system](../notes/mathew/01-16-2015/sketching-a-waterproof-pop-bottle-sensor-system)

