---
cid: 11085
node: [Spectrometer for analysing garden soil](../notes/Guillaume123/01-21-2015/spectrometer-for-analysing-garden-soil)
nid: 11535
created_at: 2015-01-23 14:57:42 +0000
timestamp: 1422025062
uid: 284858
author: [Guillaume123](../profile/Guillaume123)
---


Thanks idahoboy1941!
I have looked at the Google entries. Many of them require payment, but one by WG Fastie is immediately interesting. 
 I can easily adjust the slit in relation to the bend axis of the diffraction grating. It just requires a relative rotation of the two screws at the bottom of my spectrometer; then appropriate compensation of the pair of hidden screws on the opposite side of the spectrometer. I will carry out this change and publish the results. It will be interesting to see if this does change the curvature, in fact it may be the easiest way to watch the change as I make the correction. If it works, then the helpful people who have suggested that the diffraction grating not being flat, or the problem lying in the camera lens, will have an extra cause to "add to their bows". It will also mean that adding the slit adjustment the way that i have done was serendipitous; just a fortunate accident. I knew that I may not get things exactly aligned so I built in adjustment.

I will post the result when I have made the change. I will also do another post on the internal workings of the slit adjustment, with photos. But many things are piling onto me now.

Guilelmus123

[Guillaume123](../profile/Guillaume123) replying to: [Spectrometer for analysing garden soil](../notes/Guillaume123/01-21-2015/spectrometer-for-analysing-garden-soil)

