---
node: Does leaving the dye on a DVD-R grating make any difference?
author: MrBumper
created_at: 2015-02-04 17:23:43 +0000
timestamp: 1423070623
nid: 11552
cid: 11114
uid: 432766
---



[MrBumper](../profile/MrBumper) replying to: [Does leaving the dye on a DVD-R grating make any difference?](../notes/MrBumper/02-04-2015/does-leaving-the-dye-on-a-dvd-r-grating-make-any-difference)

----
The "squeezing" referred to in the previous comment is, I believe, actually a result of the way that Spectral Workbench uses the two reference points and then scales the X axis accordingly. I believe also that the variation in the X axis calibration is due to the variability in accuracy of the Spectral Workbench calibration procedure. 
The grating in my rig is not bent in any way and in fact I do not have any mechanism in place to intentionally bend the grating. Repeating the capture several times and trying to plot the results together could well only increase confusion because of the SW variation in calibrating the X axis.

The way I interpret the results is that the dye does adsorb the longer wavelengths. Rather than scale the curves so that the green peak for both was the same I could have scaled the 'with dye' curve so that the amplitude peaks for the shorter wavelengths were the same. The longer wavelength peaks for the 'with dye' curve would then be lower in amplitude than the long wavelength peaks for the 'no dye' curve.
As I say the variation between the curves in the X or wavelength axis is, I think, just due to variations in the precision of the calibration.