---
node: Does leaving the dye on a DVD-R grating make any difference?
author: cfastie
created_at: 2015-02-04 22:01:15 +0000
timestamp: 1423087275
nid: 11552
cid: 11119
uid: 554
---



[cfastie](../profile/cfastie) replying to: [Does leaving the dye on a DVD-R grating make any difference?](../notes/MrBumper/02-04-2015/does-leaving-the-dye-on-a-dvd-r-grating-make-any-difference)

----
This is a great discussion, and of a type that is rare on this site. Usually the question being asked, the methods used to answer it, and the results of the observations are not articulated well enough for anyone to know whether the conclusions are valid or not. In this case, Terry described a question that arose from an observation he made, then formulated a relevant hypothesis, then devised a method to test the hypothesis, then performed the test and found that the result was consistent with his hypothesis. All this is clearly presented in this note. Bryan is correct that we don't know how much variability there is in the system used to make the test, so we don't know whether the same result would arise if the test were repeated. Bryan thinks that is Terry's problem, but I think the problem belongs to Bryan (and to the rest of us). Unlike most Public Lab authors, Terry has presented all the information needed to reproduce his test. Until someone does that, I consider Terry's result to be the scientific truth. If we have a hypothesis about some alternate explanation for Terry's result, it is up to us to devise a test and perform it. Isn't that the way it works?

Fleischmann and Pons published one paper on cold fusion and sparked hundreds of attempts to reproduce the result. Another paper by Fleischmann and Pons was the last thing we needed to find the truth.