---
cid: 1112
node: [Spectrometer Kickstarter script](../notes/warren/8-1-2012/spectrometer-kickstarter-script)
nid: 3063
created_at: 2012-08-02 22:48:52 +0000
timestamp: 1343947732
uid: 1
author: [warren](../profile/warren)
---

I like the idea of better emphasizing the "invite others to join/contribute" angle. When you look at what's novel, there are a few things:

* shared database, community
* open hardware
* good software (getting better)
* EJ angle

i.e. it's not just a proof of concept, it's part of a different way of thinking about why spectrometry is important, and a different paradigm for sharing/exchanging/communicating about results (more YouTube or Wikipedia, less cloistered/experts-only)

Emphasizing how much is left to get done and asking for help is also a great way not to overpromise what it can currently do -- I'm concerned about saying "this thing can already do x,y,z!!! it's teh bomb!" and losing credibility that way. I want constructive skepticism as much as enthusiasm. So i'll rework the script to reflect that, thanks.

A couple other things incorporating Chris' feedback on pricing/materials, and some of Christina Xu's on user-readiness:

1) I'm going to divide the mobile version into a super-cheap folding black cardboard version at ~$5-10 or so (pricing thoughts?) and a fancier, rigid plastic model. The problem i worry about is how we can do a plastic model if only < 50 people buy it. If it's priced at, say, $45, more than the desktop kit, you know, we might expect less volume and be able to do a small run... but I dunno. Could we do a laser-cut plastic version as a backup plan if we don't get enough orders?

2) A fancy "countertop" model which comes with a prebuilt stand and testing dish, and is "testing ready" for wine, coffee, beer enthusiasts -- the kind of thing you could actually put in a coffeeshop or wine bar. I've already made a decent version of this, and it'd involve a couple lasercut parts, a dimmable light, and a ready-to-use, precalibrated spectrometer.. I'm thinking $200-250?

Final question -- what $ threshold to go for? With the low end at <$10 but a very attractive option at ~$200, i feel like we could ask 10-15k... but maybe not. I'd hope to do much better than that... but you know, you want to make sure we get there, worst case.

[warren](../profile/warren) replying to: [Spectrometer Kickstarter script](../notes/warren/8-1-2012/spectrometer-kickstarter-script)

