---
node: Spectrometer Kickstarter script
author: mathew
created_at: 2012-08-02 23:05:25 +0000
timestamp: 1343948725
nid: 3063
cid: 1113
uid: 4
---



[mathew](../profile/mathew) replying to: [Spectrometer Kickstarter script](../notes/warren/8-1-2012/spectrometer-kickstarter-script)

----
I'd put an emphasis on getting lots of orders for the mass produced versions that we get a good margin on. 
Can you split the difference between the cardboard spectrometer and the fancy plastic one-- like get some laser cut out of a more durable material? [Styrene](http://www.evergreenscalemodels.com/Sheets.htm#Black%20Sheets) is easily glued and laser cut, and can be folded without breaking.  You could offer a self assembly and assembled versions.

when I look back at the balloon mapping kits Kickstarter, all the little rewards and expensive rewards (dual camera sets) weren't particularly profitable and took a lot of staff time. in fact, I think making t-shirts and posters and other things lost us money.  I'd have better spent my time locking in the price of the balloon kit given all contingencies (it should have been a little higher), and only offering balloons, reels, and balloon kits.

I'd like to see us do more Kickstarters for products and focus very specifically on the one or two products we're offering.  If the fancy "countertop" version helps pay for some of your development time (like the dual camera sets did) then it's worth it.  if it merely takes up your time with assembly, then it's not.  If that means only offering two products-- a portable and a desktop spectrometer, then I don't think that's a bad thing.

