---
cid: 11146
node: [Valuing two modes of Public Lab activities](../notes/liz/02-10-2015/valuing-two-modes-of-public-lab-activities)
nid: 11573
created_at: 2015-02-11 02:22:08 +0000
timestamp: 1423621328
uid: 432766
author: [MrBumper](../profile/MrBumper)
---

You make some great points there. It seems to me that it is difficult to keep what may be valid experimental results, separated from rough tests, "is this thing working" and poor results, captured by people who just haven't managed to assemble their equipment properly, or have failed to use it properly. I think it is great that Public Lab allows so many people to at least try their hand at making measurements, but the poor results create so much background "noise" it is hard to even see what sort of results you should be getting when instruments are correctly constructed and used. I'm refering particularly to Spectral Workbench in this regard. 

I also find that since it is a web application, every trial I make is recorded. I must have made dozens of calibration runs while I simply experimented with the set up of my spectrometer. They can't possibly be of much use to anyone and if I was making local measurements I would have deleted most of them. Do you really keep every capture that is made?

I can't offer much in the way of suggestions for a solution. One thing that would be good is to have a 'sticky' area for example good results - This is what a good calibrated plot for a fluorescent lamp should look like. Maybe you have that already and I have just missed it? 

[MrBumper](../profile/MrBumper) replying to: [Valuing two modes of Public Lab activities](../notes/liz/02-10-2015/valuing-two-modes-of-public-lab-activities)

