---
cid: 11158
node: [Improved DIY NIR camera calibration](../notes/nedhorning/05-01-2014/improved-diy-nir-camera-calibration)
nid: 10389
created_at: 2015-02-12 13:25:21 +0000
timestamp: 1423747521
uid: 133
author: [nedhorning](../profile/nedhorning)
---

Hi manattta -
Keep in mind that white balance and calibration are two different processes. White balance is used to adjust the in-camera processing with the goal of making a photo look "nice". In our case we're interested in creating a photo that makes a decent looking NDVI image without much additional processing. The goal of calibration on the other hand is to convert the pixel values recorded by the camera to a physical measurement. In our case we want to convert to reflectance.

With both white balance and calibration it is best if you can image a target under lighting conditions that are similar to the lighting conditions when you will be acquiring your aerial photos. If you add that step to your aerial survey protocols it's not much extra work. In addition to a pre-flight target shot its probably a good idea to take a post-flight target shot too.

If you don't want to use a target during each flight you can do the calibration once and then assume the lighting conditions (sun elevation, azimuth, atmospheric conditions) are similar for each flight. That might be good enough for your work. Another option is to adjust for different illumination factors when you post-process your images but that would require developing an appropriate model and recording solar intensity and angle during your flight missions. That would be an interesting project but would not be easy.

[nedhorning](../profile/nedhorning) replying to: [Improved DIY NIR camera calibration](../notes/nedhorning/05-01-2014/improved-diy-nir-camera-calibration)

