---
node: Spectrometer Kickstarter script
author: warren
created_at: 2012-08-03 17:59:54 +0000
timestamp: 1344016794
nid: 3063
cid: 1117
uid: 1
---



[warren](../profile/warren) replying to: [Spectrometer Kickstarter script](../notes/warren/8-1-2012/spectrometer-kickstarter-script)

----
OK great feedback. I'm going to narrow the rewards to 3 which are announced in the video, and the 4th paper cutout one will still be offered but less emphasized. I de-rattified the webcam grating: https://www.flickr.com/photos/publiclaboratory/7705440790/

And here's a reworking of parts of the script (i have yet to integrate it with the existing script):

----

Ever since we made it easy to make your own balloon maps during the Gulf oil spill, we in the Public Lab community have been working on new ways to detect, quantify, and investigate environmental contamination. We want to be able to prove whether a given patch of brown goo is in fact crude, motor oil, or just mud.

(... explanation of spectrometry, short)

We've taken the same open source, collaborative approach as we did in balloon mapping, and over the past year we've solved 3 key problems:

* We've developed a reliable, cheap design with excellent precision
* We've created open source software for calibrating instruments and collecting standardized data
* We've made a shared online database and toolkit for analyzing, comparing, and exchanging datasets

Now we need your help. To build an open-source library of spectra, Wikipedia-style, we need your participation in collecting and analyzing new data. This will make new things possible, like spectral matching -- imagine SHAZAM for materials. 

(clip of mobile spectrometer matching)

To get started, we're offering an easy-to-assemble kit...

For the adventuresome, we're also offering an experimental "mobile spectrometer" attachment for smartphones. 

Finally, for those of you who want to do a *lot* of testing -- at a coffee shop, or a wine bar -- we're offering a special "countertop" model which comes with Pyrex sample dishes, a stand, and an adjustable halogen lamp. 