---
cid: 11170
node: [Calibrating DIY NIR cameras – part 1](../notes/nedhorning/10-21-2013/calibrating-diy-nir-cameras-part-1)
nid: 9509
created_at: 2015-02-15 13:30:40 +0000
timestamp: 1424007040
uid: 435292
author: [Giovanni1983](../profile/Giovanni1983)
---

Hi Ned, I'm newbie here so I hope my comment will be read. I also apologize in advance for all the language mistakes i'll do during this conversation. I'm really interested in apply the NDVI monitoring method in my region.

Please read this comment as a tutorial need, by a self-taught...

As all DIY people I've started with what I've had by hands, so my modified camera is a CANON eos 30d (no more IR-UV cut). My first question is on the filter type to choose, at the moment I'm waiting for a samples rim from LeeFilters in order to try the [#21](/n/21) and the [#26](/n/26), On Rosco filters, that is mentioned on some pages in didn't find the [#21](/n/21). I'm also wondering about purchasing the XNite71585 and 78058 from Maxmax.com. The topic question is would the photomonitoring plug-in work with a NIR photo taken by my eos 30d (18-55mm) and a visible one taken by a eos 40d (same optics). I've read that the photos should be as similar as it could be, and I know that even with the same optics, set ups and format size, the Mpixels number vary from 3504x2336 pixels from 30d camera to 3888x2592 pixels from the 40d camera.

I've taken the 40d because it was a real deal, less than 5k shots and verified assistance for 150€... Right now I want to know if I'm hanged up and need another camera, or if somehow it could work anyway.

Thanks Giovanni.


[Giovanni1983](../profile/Giovanni1983) replying to: [Calibrating DIY NIR cameras – part 1](../notes/nedhorning/10-21-2013/calibrating-diy-nir-cameras-part-1)

