---
cid: 11284
node: [PLab 3 Gain Correction](../notes/stoft/03-06-2015/plab-3-gain-correction)
nid: 11658
created_at: 2015-03-06 12:26:11 +0000
timestamp: 1425644771
uid: 432766
author: [MrBumper](../profile/MrBumper)
---

This does look very promising. How was your spectrometer set up - blue dye removed from DVD-R grating ? (assuming you used a DVD-R), IR filter removed from lens?
Any camera settings ? (auto WB turned off etc.)

I suspect that the IR response could be much better if both the blue dye is removed from the DVD-R and the IR filter is removed from the lens. I have seen some plots for the Bayer filters used in web-cams that show the red filter not as band pass, but as low pass. If the red filter really was a good band pass it would seem you would not need an extra IR filter, so I suspect the red filter often is a low pass. I hope to get around to doing some tests on IR response (with and without blue dye and IR filter) using an IR LED as a light source. 

The blue filter does seem to be band pass and responsible for cutting off the short wavelengths.

The sample of the Sanmtech camera I got with my PL Spec 2 kit seems to be particularly bad, I don't know if they are all like that. It's noisy and it seems impossible to get the R,G and B to track at any colour temperature, which means there is always a gain imbalance between the channels. The Videw XJD camera supplied with Spec 3 seems to be a better camera, although I haven't had a chance to run any camera tests yet. If there is a lot of variation in camera performance it could perhaps make applying any corrections more difficult.

[MrBumper](../profile/MrBumper) replying to: [PLab 3 Gain Correction](../notes/stoft/03-06-2015/plab-3-gain-correction)

