---
node: PLab 3 Gain Correction
author: stoft
created_at: 2015-03-07 05:01:20 +0000
timestamp: 1425704480
nid: 11658
cid: 11287
uid: 54025
---



[stoft](../profile/stoft) replying to: [PLab 3 Gain Correction](../notes/stoft/03-06-2015/plab-3-gain-correction)

----
This was the Sanm camera of the PLab 3.0 + my own upgrade. No blue-film on the DVD and no IR filter. While removing the IR filter from webcams does add some IR detection, the sensitivity is still poor -- so attempting to gain-correct beyond 650nm is not very effective. The noise is too high so the correction error is too large. I think it is not yet possible to analyze the variation between Bayer filters between Sanm cameras. I suspect that any variation is not with the camera but with the measurement configuration. More test with Sanm camera and more Solex 4700K lamps could build more statistics; then we'd have more data to assign an error value.

Yes, Solux apparently wanted to capture the fine art display market so needed much better halogen lights with broad / smooth spectra. I've not yet found better and none others with published spectral data. Only their 4700K lamp has such a flat spectra which is why it is ideal for this specific use - broadband gain correction. These are 12V lamps and come with a power supply. I've received some stability data, which looks good, but I"m waiting on clarification on the spectral precision -- I''l add it to the note when it's available. Filters don't help. While they can change the overall shape, they do nothing for the variations within a band -- just adds another layer of calibrated values to acquire.