---
cid: 11296
node: [PLab 3 Gain Correction](../notes/stoft/03-06-2015/plab-3-gain-correction)
nid: 11658
created_at: 2015-03-08 16:50:55 +0000
timestamp: 1425833455
uid: 432766
author: [MrBumper](../profile/MrBumper)
---

Sigh! well I wondered why I hadn't come across 'daylight' halogen before. It's cos they don't seem to be available in the UK, at least the Solux lamps aren't. The majority of daylight lamps available here are old style tungsten bulbs with a blue coating. The makers don't supply any kind of typical curve and they don't look as though they would be very consistent. There is an Osram 'daylight' halogen, but its a lower colour temperature and the Osram curve for it is an 'artists rendition' and highly idealised. They don't give tabulated measurements, just the curve.

As for the specialist lamp versus filter thing. I was under the impression that the Solux lamps were just ordinary halogen / filament lamps with a built in filter. The output of a tungsten filament lamp, I would have thought, would be fairly smooth. I have seen it said that tungsten lamps are a reasonable approximation to a black body. Never-the-less I take your point that the Solux lamp, which is manufactured to a known performance spec. with published data, is the best choice.

With a tungsten lamp and a Lee filter you'd be trying to build your own daylight lamp and would really need to calibrate it with a commercial spectrometer of known calibration.

[MrBumper](../profile/MrBumper) replying to: [PLab 3 Gain Correction](../notes/stoft/03-06-2015/plab-3-gain-correction)

