---
node: Bayou Sauvage Draeger tubes after 4 days
author: eustatic
created_at: 2012-08-07 01:11:08 +0000
timestamp: 1344301868
nid: 3153
cid: 1131
uid: 379
---



[eustatic](../profile/eustatic) replying to: [Bayou Sauvage Draeger tubes after 4 days](../notes/shannon/8-6-2012/bayou-sauvage-draeger-tubes-after-4-days)

----
that is what I was thinking, controls, as well.  This is why i saved strips...

Wetlands are 1.3 ppm - 4 ppm max.

I have 4 strips i could relatively easily set up in my backyard, with Zero expected H2S.  We could also do the levee or road in Bayou Sauvage, away from bubbles and such.  

I'm thinking 5 day exposure.

A figaro sensor would be good for these week-long industrial flaring events that seem to happen every other month in NORCO--but from different stacks.  I need to talk to Darin, my pal who lives there, about setting things up on his roof.  We should also scout placement in places like baseball fields and the drainage canal.

The drainage canal would be interesting because the wetlands are probably a source of that small level of H2S, and we need these Zeros to say that anything we would get at that site is industrial.  

Chalmette is the other site i've seen hydrogen sulfide for.  Murphy i think has an array up--private company, public air quality data, if i can find the website...

There is no weather station near Chalmette or Murphy on weather underground.  I think Eric at Common Ground would dig on one, what are they, $400 bucks?

Spanish Lake is also a really stinky wetland site (although it's much closer to Baton Rouge).  it was over-flooded for 50 years, then recently drained.  


Scott