---
node: PLab 3 Gain Correction
author: stoft
created_at: 2015-04-01 18:42:07 +0000
timestamp: 1427913727
nid: 11658
cid: 11455
uid: 54025
---



[stoft](../profile/stoft) replying to: [PLab 3 Gain Correction](../notes/stoft/03-06-2015/plab-3-gain-correction)

----
Whatever the reference source, that spectral response curve needs to be saved in SWB. Also, as in another SWB issue I filed, SWB data should be translated to uniform X-axes increments -- nm increments or 0.5nm increments and aligned to integer nm values. This will be the only way to keep plot comparisons and gain-adjust curves easily aligned. We don't need precision as exists now in the CSV files (like 436.435nm) as the spectrometer is, at very best, only ~2nm FWHM resolution. So, .....

Next, any form of gain-adjust reference should be a "smoothed" curve with curve detail below the resolution of the spectrometer. Any curve 'transients' in the reference (even if they are real and known) will only appear in the adjusted output as noise and so are meaningless to the spectrometer's data.

1 - Normalize the smoothed reference data (peak value = 1.0 relative intensity)

2 - Smooth the PLab's measurement data of that same reference source (eg. 15-point)

3 - Normalize the smoothed PLab measurement data (meas peak = ref peak = 1.0)

4 - Calculated the ratio (multiplicative not subtractive) difference over 400-650nm

5 - Use a cosine function to 'roll-off' the ratio curve to zero below 400 and above 650nm

6 - Smooth (eg 5-point) the result and save as a user's relative intensity gain-adjust cal

7 - User can then use this curve just like their CFL cal data

When SWB displays a spectra which makes use of a gain-adjust curve, it should overlay some graphical indicator of the 400-650nm gain adjust range so that the user can recognize that their data outside of this range should be treated as increasingly unreliable in terms of intensity relative to the data within 400-650nm. Remember, the existence of spectral information outside 400-650nm can be real, it is just increasingly less reliable because the spectrometer's sensitivity falls off so rapidly.