---
node: 5th Anniversary call for memories!
author: jlev
created_at: 2015-04-20 18:26:57 +0000
timestamp: 1429554417
nid: 11745
cid: 11517
uid: 439055
---



[jlev](../profile/jlev) replying to: [5th Anniversary call for memories!](../notes/liz/04-06-2015/5th-anniversary-call-for-memories)

----
I was a student at the Media Lab in 2009, when the oil was still gurgling out of a hole in the bottom of the gulf, and Jeff started talking about what we were going to do about it. My answer had to do with a boycott of BP, and his had something to do with balloons. We decided to help each other out; I was an aeronautics engineer by earlier training, and asked Jeff if he'd at least done the math to determine how much helium we needed to fly a camera, and if he'd gotten the permits necessary to do it in busy Boston airspace. The answer to both was "no", but in true MIT fashion, we proceeded nevertheless. Christina's photos capture the can-do spirit and "to the wind" attitude, which has persisted in Public Lab to this day. 

On a later excursion to a UN-sponsored Mobile Data Collection Conference in the Middle East, we built a kite out of tyvek and dowels, stuffed it in a shared taxi in the West Bank and tried to fly in high-gusts over Palestinian organic farms and olive plantations. The kite crashed, but the kids laughed, and I think the footage shot on an iPod Nano survived. Later, we wow'ed Jordanian engineering students in Amman with a balloon over their campus that attracted a crowd of curious onlookers, and nervous security guards. Jeff also bought a "unique educational computer", with 999999-in-one games, which I resulted in a buffer overflow of excitement.

Recently I was telling someone about the Public Lab and the awesome folks I know who are part of it, only to have them respond "oh yeah, I know someone there too." When we realized we were talking about separate, but both totally awesome people, the scale and quality of the community you've gathered together becomes quite clear. Congratulations on these five years of participation and learning, and on to the next. Science!