---
cid: 11527
node: [PhenoPi: a citizen science phenology monitoring network](../notes/khufkens/04-24-2015/phenopi-a-citizen-science-phenology-monitoring-network)
nid: 11766
created_at: 2015-04-24 17:33:00 +0000
timestamp: 1429896780
uid: 438931
author: [khufkens](../profile/khufkens)
---

Hi Chris,

With respect to vegetation types, everything goes. As long as there is vegetation in the field of view this should work. If you check the [PhenoCam webpage](http://phenocam.sr.unh.edu/webcam/gallery/) you see a lot of diverse sites (but mostly still research locations, but some schools as well). I'm currently working on an evergreen study which involves white pines, so yes those would work. Actually the more vegetation types in the field of view the better as this provides a way to assess the response of different vegetation types to varying climatological conditions e.g. the evergreens might not care so much about temperature as the deciduous trees do in spring. 

I'm not sure about the temperature limits on the electronics. Most of electronics generate some heat which prevents them from freezing (but -20F is low). We have StarDot cameras in Alaska working the whole year round, but they run rather hot. Conceptually I did design the housing to be simple and for indoor (room temperature) use. So time will tell if it will keep functioning at such extreme temperatures. The bugs won't be a problem I think, and if not sure I might suggest to cover the gpio pins on the pi with some insulating material so they can't get shorted by a bugs goo.

Cheers,
Koen

[khufkens](../profile/khufkens) replying to: [PhenoPi: a citizen science phenology monitoring network](../notes/khufkens/04-24-2015/phenopi-a-citizen-science-phenology-monitoring-network)

