---
cid: 11549
node: [TetraPi: a well characterized multispectral camera](../notes/khufkens/04-24-2015/tetrapi-a-well-characterized-multispectral-camera)
nid: 11767
created_at: 2015-04-28 12:35:10 +0000
timestamp: 1430224510
uid: 438931
author: [khufkens](../profile/khufkens)
---

Wow, that's an impressive project. I don't have the electronic engineering skills to finish such a polished product I fear. I use a more 'off the shelve' approach. It's nice to see you found a monochrome sensor that was fully characterized. It's probably easier if you order true components rather than finished products.

Any reason why you use a beaglebone instead of for example a raspberry pi? Although more powerful it also seems limited in terms of plug and play (due to the limited number of usb ports). I'm mentioning this because having wireless access seems like a huge advantage (the pi can be an ad hoc wifi point which could server as a server from which to pull data without plugging in). I'm working on such a system to download images for more remote setups. Not having to interfer with the camera setup is a huge bonus for permanent monitoring as well as the weather sealing of a setup. Getting data would be as simple as running up to a fixed camera, log in to it's local network, grabbing the images (and deleting the old) and moving on to the next. Similarly, the mobile camera could directly send the images to a mobile device / laptop when in the field. This is of course no use for drone mounted equipment but it might be a good idea to think outside the scope of the original project. Adding this functionality will probably not be hard but will be a huge advantage.

Would the filters be interchangeable? I don't see any filters in front of the lens so I assume they are in the assembly. I'm asking because there are other indices out there that might be of interest (PRI, and other narrow band indices).

[khufkens](../profile/khufkens) replying to: [TetraPi: a well characterized multispectral camera](../notes/khufkens/04-24-2015/tetrapi-a-well-characterized-multispectral-camera)

