---
cid: 11547
node: [The accidental raspberry pi spectrometer](../notes/khufkens/04-25-2015/the-accidental-raspberry-pi-spectrometer)
nid: 11770
created_at: 2015-04-28 03:37:59 +0000
timestamp: 1430192279
uid: 438931
author: [khufkens](../profile/khufkens)
---

There are three variables in this setup:

1) the light source's output, which needs to be characterized or idealized (you could use the sun as a reference)
2) the wavelength dependent transmission of your grating
3) the spectral response of your bayer array on the imaging sensor

You need at least two of these to solve for the third! In my setup I have 1 and 2 characterized, which would provide me with 3. This analysis can be done for any imaging sensor.

If you want to get at 2, the transmission dependent nature of the grating, you will need to have the sensor calibrated and access to a reliable (known) light source. I'm in a privileged position as I have access to lab grade light sources as well as an ASD fieldspec pro which can serve as a true reference. If my efforts are successful for the OV5647 camera chip I would be willing to invest some time in doing the same analysis for the chipset in the camera of the kit.

Another approach to calibrate everything more easily has been discussed [here](http://publiclab.org/notes/stoft/02-25-2015/plab-spectrometer-gain-correction). I think this approach is valid and probably easier to implement. It's a rough first cut, but might make a difference without any additional cost. I think that at a certain point people should either consider buying a professional grating (which aren't that expensive, but well characterized - my raspberry pi setup will run for <$150 which isn't too bad but not cheap anymore).

Within the context of calibration, I'm wondering if you couldn't mine the spectral workbench data. How large is the variability of say a known light source - camera combination (assuming that people tag it correctly). This should tell you something about variability across setups (precision) which should technically be the same (given the calibration routine in the workbench I assume the accuracy will be reasonably consistent). If things aren't precise, than the error of the build probably messes things up more than what you could correct with any post processing and sensor / grating characterization.

[khufkens](../profile/khufkens) replying to: [The accidental raspberry pi spectrometer](../notes/khufkens/04-25-2015/the-accidental-raspberry-pi-spectrometer)

