---
cid: 11558
node: [TetraPi: a well characterized multispectral camera](../notes/khufkens/04-24-2015/tetrapi-a-well-characterized-multispectral-camera)
nid: 11767
created_at: 2015-04-28 21:36:58 +0000
timestamp: 1430257018
uid: 420719
author: [gpenzo](../profile/gpenzo)
---

Hallo khufkens.
Off the shelve approch is a very good way, if it does the job why not. I will keep an eye on your project.

The main reason for the beaglebone black is the real time requirements I have. 
I need to read and toggle pins very fast. And as far I know I cannot toggle pins or read them out with 20Mhz speed. The beaglebone black has two extra realtime processor running at 200mhz. My first version used one for each camera. My current version uses only one. 
Small advantage, beaglebone has a lipo charger in it. But when you run it from a lipo usb does not work. But in my case is oke will be hanging from a drone.
The filters are indeed in the lens housing. One is mounted on the lens it self and the other on the cmos sensor. This board will be NDVI so I do not really bother about interchanging the filters.
Next version will be a setup with 4 or 5 cameras. I know a farmer who is interested in 4 different indexes and will pay for the development :).
I still need to make a list of indexes which are useful. And maybe make a board which can handle them all, 8 or 10 cameras. But for that I need to find a sponsor :)

One usb is enough for me. Can handle wifi or 3g usb modem when supply with 5 volt.  

With the PI you do not have total control of the cameras, broadcom limit the amount of settings you can do by hardware.

I remember when I was looking for a camera, omnivison also had a monochrome camera OV7251. This one also has global shutter like the aptina. 

Grayson.

[gpenzo](../profile/gpenzo) replying to: [TetraPi: a well characterized multispectral camera](../notes/khufkens/04-24-2015/tetrapi-a-well-characterized-multispectral-camera)

