---
cid: 11585
node: [Calibrating raw images - a step toward JPEG calibration?](../notes/nedhorning/06-23-2014/calibrating-raw-images-a-step-toward-jpeg-calibration)
nid: 10607
created_at: 2015-05-05 01:08:35 +0000
timestamp: 1430788115
uid: 440792
author: [Nanfeng](../profile/Nanfeng)
---

Hi Ned,
This is a really nice work.

I have a couple of questions about the conversion between the DNs of JPEG images and that of raw images.
The Figure 2 of this note shows that there is a perfect linear regression between raw DNs and reflectance, which makes sense since the more reflective the more radiance received by the camera. Therefore, Reflectance = K * DN_raw.
A figure in your previous note shows a nonlinear relationship between Reflectance and the DNs of JPEG images due to the gamma correction, i.e., DN_jpeg = Gamma(Reflectance).
Thus, I guess there will be a nonlinear relationship (similar to the Gamma function) between DN_raw and DN_jpeg. i.e., DN_jpeg=Gamma(DN_raw). 

To validate this idea, I used a Canon EOS 650D NDVI camera to take the raw (CR2) and jpeg format images of ground vegetation. This camera captures the three spectral bands: NIR (R channel), Green (G channel) and Blue (B channel).  For the raw image, the bayer image was extracted by using Adobe DN converter. Then, its R, G and B channel values was extracted. Then, I did a pixel-based comparison between the DNs of the raw image and the DNs of the jpeg image. For example, on the bayer image the R value appears at the positions of (1,1), (3,1) and so on. These values were compared with those pixels at the same positions on the jpeg image.
However, no correlation was found between them.
So I am wondering if there is something wrong with my logic? Do you have any suggestions? Thanks in advance. Nanfeng

[Nanfeng](../profile/Nanfeng) replying to: [Calibrating raw images - a step toward JPEG calibration?](../notes/nedhorning/06-23-2014/calibrating-raw-images-a-step-toward-jpeg-calibration)

