---
cid: 11592
node: [5th Anniversary call for memories!](../notes/liz/04-06-2015/5th-anniversary-call-for-memories)
nid: 11745
created_at: 2015-05-05 18:03:03 +0000
timestamp: 1430848983
uid: 1205
author: [dorncox](../profile/dorncox)
---

Reflecting on 5 years of Public Laboratory is a wonderful thing.  I was first introduced to Public Laboratory through a cross pollination with Farm Hack, an open source agrarian community founded at roughly the same time.  I had been working for years in relative isolation developing agricultural trials and tools with the objective to make the work publicly accessible and open source.   In the spring of 2012, I had a strong desire to photograph organic no-till covercrop plots to make the results I was observing more publicly accessible.   I had even climbed up on the top of my tractor trying to get as much of an overhead view as I could of the growth patterns that were so dramatic on the ground.  It was a great thrill when I overheard Farm Hack member RJ Steinert talk about his adventures with balloon and kite photography in Cambridge the previous weekend.   From that conversation, the call went out to the Farm Hack and Public Lab communities, resulting in the first iFarm event which not only put the trials on the map (quite literally as a google earth layer), but also built the foundation for what I believe to be a participatory and exploratory science community that is so important for advancing public knowledge of environmental systems.  The energy, enthusiasm, and humor (not always in that order) of Jeff warren, Chris Fastie, Ned Horning, Don Blair and Craig Versek were immediately infectious. The work and conversations that were started through the intersections of the Public Lab and Farm Hack communities has informed almost every significant conversation, paper, and public presentation I have since been involved in.  

Each year, the tools get more accurate and accessible, the participation grows, we have more fun, and the costs of observation and communication and action drop. This is all made possible by the collaborative nature of the work, as comradery and the shared joy of observation creates more action and results.  I credit Public lab with my own exploration of Natural Philosophy and the process of reclaiming inquiry from the institutional monopoly on expertise.  Public lab has changed the conversation for me, even as we work through the challenges of definition and credibility, by focusing my efforts on reclaiming it as a duty for an engaged agrarian citizenry.   

Charles Darwin, was an inductive (exploratory) observational scientist and insisted on the importance of writing for the public.  “I sometimes think,” he affirmed, “that general and popular Treatises are almost as important for the progress of science as original work”. Darwin’s insistence on general accessibility of scientific inquiry and exploratory, inductive observation supports “popular” inquiry as important as original work.   He and other enlightenment thinkers recognized the function of science to create a more informed public not just more professional scientists. Public Labs has helped re-discover science is a multi-generational team sport.  Thank you Public Lab and happy 5th! 

[dorncox](../profile/dorncox) replying to: [5th Anniversary call for memories!](../notes/liz/04-06-2015/5th-anniversary-call-for-memories)

