---
node: 5th Anniversary call for memories!
author: shaief
created_at: 2015-05-10 20:27:37 +0000
timestamp: 1431289657
nid: 11745
cid: 11639
uid: 151
---



[shaief](../profile/shaief) replying to: [5th Anniversary call for memories!](../notes/liz/04-06-2015/5th-anniversary-call-for-memories)

----
Five years old memory:

It was 2010, I was a freelance cartographer creating geographic datasets and maps for human rights organizations in Israel-Palestine. One of the organizations received a request for a meeting from a guy named Jeff Warren that wanted present his project regarding aerial photography using kites. His email was forwarded to me, because for some reason no one at the organization found an interest in the project. I wrote to Jeff and invited him to hang out in Tel Aviv where we will discuss his ideas and to sleep at my place. He came and I spent an inspiring evening with Jeff discussing kite mapping and creative ideas from around the globe. The next day he left back to the US and I kept his ideas in the back of my head.

A few months later Hagit contacted me. She wanted to conduct mapping workshops to youth in Jerusalem. We discussed several ideas and then I remembered this guy, Jeff. I introduced them to each other. Things were moving forward and it was a matter of months and in July 2011 Jeff was here again, this time for a two weeks workshop where i had the chance to enjoy his presence.

I remember us trying to fly the kite with kids from the workshop. After a few minutes more kids came up the hill. Each one of them got a hold of the string, while "encouraging" the kite to fly high and calling the string holder to release it more "atina!" (release (give it) more in Arabic).
We tried to regulate the number of kids directly involved, so we asked them to wear gloves. Some of the kids ran back home and came back with cheap, torn latex gloves. We were so amused that we didn't even try to regulate them again.

Usually these kids build their home made kites with improvised materials and strings. It was their first time to fly a commercially built kite with a long string. They were so happy about it that they released it too fast. The kite lost height and landed between the houses.
