---
node: DIY Formaldehyde Test Kit
author: nshapiro
created_at: 2015-05-12 03:24:48 +0000
timestamp: 1431401088
nid: 11317
cid: 11649
uid: 380298
---



[nshapiro](../profile/nshapiro) replying to: [DIY Formaldehyde Test Kit](../notes/nshapiro/11-03-2014/diy-formaldehyde-test-kit)

----
[@danbeavers](/profile/danbeavers) just sent me a great email about cheap flow meters. he told me I could repost it, so am putting it here:

"I have been thinking/researching a cheap flow meter.  I sent a couple of
e-mails to vendors that advertise seemingly appropriate meters for under
$30 and have not received a reply yet.

I have also been thinking on how to construct a variable volume flow
meter with the least amount of tools and cheaply.

Calibration: I don't remember who and can't find the e-mail but someone
suggested the bubble in the graduated cylinder method.  That seems to me
to be the way to go.  Use this to calibrate the homemade flow meter.
The cheapest way to go here is probably a disposable plastic pipette.  I
have not priced or sourced any yet but I can't believe that they would
be very expensive.  They come in lots of sizes so some appropriate size
should be easy to obtain.  I got a free sample of several sizes at the
Pittcon conference in March so I should be able to determine an
appropriate size fairly easily.

Flow adjustment:  A simple screw clamp or similar device on an aquarium
hose should be easy to construct or find.

Flow meter:  The most accurate measurement at 0.3 lpm is most likely the
variable volume flow meter or rotometer.  The problem with constructing
such a device is how to make the conical bore.  Drawing a melted glass
tube is probably not easy enough to accomplish.  I attempted a similar
process with placing aquarium tube in boiling water and stretching it.
That may be a viable solution but more research needs to be done but I
don't have much confidence in the process.

My neighbor and I were talking about this and we came up with an idea to
make a stepped bore.  Since we only want one flow rate (perhaps 2 if
measuring a different chemical also) then when obtaining the correct
flow rate the ball would be no lower than one step in the bore and no
higher than the other step in the bore.  To construct this would require
a standard ball, a set of drills, and a hunk of clear plastic.  Drills
may not be accurate enough so I would expect reamers would work in that
case.

Determining the correct size of the holes and ball can perhaps be
calculated to reduce the amount of experimentation required.  I have not
researched the formulas involved but expect that they are readily available."

This might be one way of getting our per-unit cost down. any thoughts on this [@mathew](/profile/mathew)
