---
cid: 11735
node: [MultispeQ at iFARM](../notes/cfastie/05-22-2015/multispeq-at-ifarm)
nid: 11828
created_at: 2015-05-23 01:32:10 +0000
timestamp: 1432344730
uid: 53164
author: [gbathree](../profile/gbathree)
---

No worries - this is an important discussion and you're right, it's not at all easy to measure.  We've spent a lot of time helping people (mostly breeders, some ag extension folks) design experiments correctly to address the very issues you identified.  But it's also hard to measure fv/fm - you can use leaf clamps during the day and dark adapt each leaf for 15 minutes at least (which affects the leaf due to clamping and even 15 minutes often isn't even for full dark adaptation) or you can measure the leaves at night (which is sometimes hard to convince people to do).  I'm hoping that one of our collaborators here in [Eric Olsen's lab](http://www.psm.msu.edu/people/eric_olson) actually do get both Phi2 during the day, and go out to collect fv/fm at night.

To be honest, I'm not sure if there's a big difference between the two or not.  I'm going to email another friend to respond here.  He's done a bit more searching in the literature about fv/fm versus phi2, and the differences or similarities in terms of outcomes.  

We have another protocol in the works which may be able to estimate a more complete portion of the light / phi2 curve without producing lots of measurements throughout the day.  This would significantly improve our statistical power per time spent measuring (that's the most important measurement, after all!)  I'm really excited about that if we can get it to work, but it's still very much in the testing stages.

[gbathree](../profile/gbathree) replying to: [MultispeQ at iFARM](../notes/cfastie/05-22-2015/multispeq-at-ifarm)

