---
cid: 11768
node: [Mid stream Urine analysis: Check whether you need to drink more water or not](../notes/chongyukwai/05-23-2015/mid-stream-urine-analysis-check-whether-you-need-to-drink-more-water-or-not)
nid: 11834
created_at: 2015-05-27 08:25:32 +0000
timestamp: 1432715132
uid: 442298
author: [chongyukwai](../profile/chongyukwai)
---

Yes, i have done the calibration manually uses the blue and green light. Because the urine(concentrated urine and non-concentrated urine) are collected in different period of time. Therefore, the composition is slight different(creatinine/urea/albumin),etc. Because in real life, you cannot expect that they have the same composition when the urine are collected in different period of time. I have done some procedure that to decrease the variation eg using a mid stream urine to prevent the type of normal flora in different urine!  Further analysis can be done in that part(paper chromatography),etc. And the water and urine, they have different material. Therefore, it will affect the range.  Range that are not  less than 400nm and large than 700nm still have not been validated according to the API and may be just an artifact even though I have calibrate it!I used strong light as I placed the spectro near the incandescent light bulb as the procedure said .Therefore, that data is not valid as it can be the artifact value! Actually if it is less than 25% of the transmission as it said in the manual. It is considered as dim lights. And I used that 25% as a  cut off point as whether they are significant or not. Below is not significant and above is significant!


[chongyukwai](../profile/chongyukwai) replying to: [Mid stream Urine analysis: Check whether you need to drink more water or not](../notes/chongyukwai/05-23-2015/mid-stream-urine-analysis-check-whether-you-need-to-drink-more-water-or-not)

