---
cid: 11801
node: [DIY Formaldehyde Test Kit](../notes/nshapiro/11-03-2014/diy-formaldehyde-test-kit)
nid: 11317
created_at: 2015-05-28 21:23:09 +0000
timestamp: 1432848189
uid: 51
author: [danbeavers](../profile/danbeavers)
---

[@Mathew](/profile/Mathew)  The following is from a mechanical engineer friend of mine:

Assuming you could pull a reasonably good vacuum on the orifice, you could get a fairly constant flow.  What you would need to do is ensure the flow through the orifice is sonic, or "choked" as it's often called.  The rule of thumb for choked flow is that the absolute pressure of the inlet is 2 times that of the outlet.  Since atmospheric pressure is about 14.7 psia, the vacuum pump would only need to pull the outlet side down below 7 psia, which I don't think would be much of a task at .3 lpm.  The advantage of using choked flow is that once the orifice is flowing sonic velocity, the downstream side of the process no longer affects the upstream side.  In other words, you could go from a perfect vacuum to a marginal one and as long as the pressure is below 7 psia, it won't change the flow rate.   The bad news from a practical standpoint is that the required orifice size for .3 lpm at 14.7 psia is down below .01" according to my calculations (using two different tools), which is about as small a hole as you can drill.  You could probably find some kind of laser-cut orifice smaller than that.  As far as the upstream flow resistance, you would have to have some extreme restrictions to give you much effect at .3 lpm - the hose ends shape would be negligible.  If extreme accuracy is not an issue and the orifice size is obtainable, I think the vacuum method is reasonable.  In that case, you'd also want to use some kind of filter with a smaller rating than the orifice size to preclude clogging such a small hole, which would give you a false negative reading due to lack of flow.

[danbeavers](../profile/danbeavers) replying to: [DIY Formaldehyde Test Kit](../notes/nshapiro/11-03-2014/diy-formaldehyde-test-kit)

