---
cid: 11819
node: [The myterious case of the British Daisy - Fastie colormap in Infragram.org](../notes/Cindy_ExCites/05-31-2015/myterious-daisy-effect-with-fastie-colormap-in-infragram-org)
nid: 11923
created_at: 2015-06-01 00:16:39 +0000
timestamp: 1433117799
uid: 1
author: [warren](../profile/warren)
---

Hi, Cindy - let me try to follow your steps and note what I think you've done in each one. Note that if you think one step is really not intuitive, we should discuss it on the infrared list and see if a different behavior would be a more intuitive way for most users. 

1) I uploaded the image of a little Daisy here in London taken by my friend John with a NIR camera (blue filter 2007):

Yep.

2) I uploaded the image using "NDVI for BLUE filters" > Colorized and I got this:

Yep.

3) Then I choose RGB analysis > Run to get the NIR original image and then I select Grey analysis > Default colormap and get this:

Here, choosing RGB would get you the original if each field showed the value R, G, and B (in each of fields R, G, and B) when you pressed Run. Choosing Grey would get you just one channel - it depends on what's in the box next to it. By default, I think it shows `(R-B)/(R+B)`. But did you press Run before pressing Default colormap? If not, it would just apply the default colormap to the old image, which might mean just one channel from that image, or the overall brightness across all three channels -- I'm not actually sure. 

4) I wonder why the Daisy is showing red and apply the formula (R-B)/(R+B)*4 and without hitting Run I select Fastie colormap and get this:

Here again, without hitting Run, you're just applying the Fastie colormap to the same data left over from when you Ran the RGB equation, which we aren't sure of. 

5) And when I hit Save, the image I download is this (for some mysterious reason):

Now I'm about to get on a plane, so I'll take a break, but if you've hit Save, we should see if that runs anything automatically before saving, because you'd think it should just save what's currently on the canvas. But as we're already in unknown territory, it's hard to say without more testing and a careful reading of the code. 

[warren](../profile/warren) replying to: [The myterious case of the British Daisy - Fastie colormap in Infragram.org](../notes/Cindy_ExCites/05-31-2015/myterious-daisy-effect-with-fastie-colormap-in-infragram-org)

