---
cid: 11827
node: [Infrablue Haze](../notes/cfastie/06-26-2013/infrablue-haze)
nid: 8456
created_at: 2015-06-01 13:36:55 +0000
timestamp: 1433165815
uid: 554
author: [cfastie](../profile/cfastie)
---

Stretching the histograms of either the NIR or VIS (or both) channels used to make NDVI is a trick that can produce more meaningful NDVI. I don't know why it works, and sometimes it does not work. Stretching the histogram means rescaling the brightness values for one channel in all of the pixels in an image. Instead of the values for red being between 150 and 220, after stretching the values will range from 0 to 255. This has different affects on different photos. Sometimes stretching one or the other channel works great, sometimes stretching both makes better NDVI images. Ned's photo monitoring Fiji plugin has an option to stretch one or both histograms.

An infrablue photo can be called NGB. Ideally, a photo taken with a camera with the IR block filter replaced with a blue filter that blocks all red will have only NIR in the red channel and the other channels will be dominated by either green or blue as they usually are. So it is NGB instead of RGB. An NBG image can be made from such a photo by swapping the blue and green channels. That makes an image that looks superficially like traditional false color IR photos which are called NRG -- NIR in the red channel, Red in the green channel, and Green in the blue channel. Better NRG images can be made from red filtered NDVI cameras because the red and green channels are available for this (infrablue photos use the red channel for NIR). Even better NRG images can be made from orange filtered NDVI cameras because the green channel actually records some green light: <http://publiclab.org/notes/cfastie/01-16-2015/orange-is-the-new-red>.

[cfastie](../profile/cfastie) replying to: [Infrablue Haze](../notes/cfastie/06-26-2013/infrablue-haze)

