---
cid: 11897
node: [Plan for recording Shinyei optical sensors using Open Pipe Kit](../notes/mathew/06-01-2015/plan-for-recording-shinyei-optical-sensors-using-open-pipe-kit)
nid: 11927
created_at: 2015-06-05 19:28:51 +0000
timestamp: 1433532531
uid: 1
author: [warren](../profile/warren)
---

Mathew also did some good research on the ThermoFisher PDR-1500 http://www.thermoscientific.com/en/product/i-personal-i-dataram-pdr-1500-aerosol-monitor.html :

manual:
http://www.geotechenv.com/Manuals/Thermo_Scientific_Manuals/thermo_pdr-1500_manual.pdf

we need to communicate with the pDR-1500 through UART serial, but it has a built-in serial to USB bridge, the Silicon Laboratories CP2102 
this device runs at 19200 (page B-1)
USB drivers are here and in the linux kernel.
https://www.silabs.com/products/mcu/Pages/USBtoUARTBridgeVCPDrivers.aspx

Before running the device must be zeroed


OUTPUT (or OUT or O) [conc or scat] [temp (C)] [RH (%)] [Pa (mmHg)]
Returns the current values of the concentrations, temperature, RH and
atmospheric pressure if the pDR-1500 is running. 

LOGPERIOD [seconds]
Returns, or programs, the logging period in seconds. 

SD [Status]
Returns, or programs, the streaming data status.
Status = {“enabled” or “on”, “disabled” or “off”} 

this function is unexplained we don’t know that it does.

CALFACTOR [float value]
Returns, or programs, the user calibration adjustment factor. The value can
range from 0.001 to 10.000. 

RHCORRECT [status]
Returns, or programs, the status of Relative Humidity correction to the computation of
mass concentration.
Status = {“disable” or “off”, “enable” or “on”} 

DATE [day] [month] [year]
Returns, or programs, the date in the RTC.
Day, month and year are all integer values. 

TIME [seconds] [minutes] [hours]
Returns, or programs, the RTC’s current time. 

FLOWRATE [flow rate]
Returns, or programs, the flow rate [LPM] that is to be maintained. This
cannot be changed while logging.
Flow rate = {1.00, 1.01, 1.02, …, 3.50} [in LPM] 

TEMP [temp] [RH] [Pa]
Get current temperature, RH and atmospheric pressure.
temp is in degrees Celsius
RH is Relative Humidity in percent
Pa is barometric pressure in mmHG

UNITS [integer] the current measurement units:
Units =
0 = μg/m3
 (Mass concentration)
1 = 1/Mm (880 nm scattering coefficient) 

INLET [integer]
Returns, or programs, the inlet selection from the choices integer = {0, 1, 2}
0 = TOTAL
1 = CYCLONE RED (PM 10)
2 = CYCLONE BLUE (PM 2.5)

SITE [site #]
Returns, or programs, the description of site number sitenum. Sites are
numbered 1–50. 
sites can have their own corrections, but these corrections may be better done on the server?

[warren](../profile/warren) replying to: [Plan for recording Shinyei optical sensors using Open Pipe Kit](../notes/mathew/06-01-2015/plan-for-recording-shinyei-optical-sensors-using-open-pipe-kit)

