---
cid: 11898
node: [using soap bubbles for pump calibration](../notes/mathew/06-04-2015/using-soap-bubbles-for-pump-calibration)
nid: 11949
created_at: 2015-06-05 20:02:56 +0000
timestamp: 1433534576
uid: 4
author: [mathew](../profile/mathew)
---

[@danbeavers](/profile/danbeavers) I couldn't find that little heart. It may have been lost when the box arrived.

[@davidmack](/profile/davidmack) I ran the VWN rotameter with the valve all the way open and one end open to the atmosphere.  the pump came with a built-in filter.  My results weren't much better.  reading from the middle of the bead the flow was still .275L/M and not .3, as the 250ml graduated cylinder tests suggest. To check my graduated cylinder i put a air hose barb into a 500ml graduated cylinder and it clocked in at 79.5 (79.42, 79.58, 79.71) seconds to traverse 400ml of the cylinder, verifying the results achieved with the 250ml graduated cylinder. 

The good news here is that over 3 days with no adjustment and about 3-4 hours of run time, the pump's flow hasn't changed appreciably.

But there's bad news:
now that I've opened two of the Kitagawa tubes, I can verify that flow changes between the different tubes.  The second tube consistently posted 86.5 (three tests 86.71, 86.27, 86.58) seconds over 400 ml in the 500ml graduated cylinder test, an 8% difference in flow rate. The rotameter still reads .275L/m with the second tube, and so that 8% change in flow doesn't appear measurable with it. 

I'm inclined to return to my earlier attempts that [@Danbeavers](/profile/Danbeavers) has been offering suggestions on-- I'm going to drill a small control orifice into a brass rod and put it at the intake.  we'll see if that improves the consistency of airflow between different Kitagawa tubes. 

[mathew](../profile/mathew) replying to: [using soap bubbles for pump calibration](../notes/mathew/06-04-2015/using-soap-bubbles-for-pump-calibration)

