---
node: using soap bubbles for pump calibration
author: DavidMack
created_at: 2015-06-06 04:25:44 +0000
timestamp: 1433564744
nid: 11949
cid: 11914
uid: 420189
---



[DavidMack](../profile/DavidMack) replying to: [using soap bubbles for pump calibration](../notes/mathew/06-04-2015/using-soap-bubbles-for-pump-calibration)

----
[@mathew](/profile/mathew)

I believe you have the VWR series FR2000 rotameter, which the accuracy is specified as +/- 5% of full scale, so that's +/- 0.05 lpm. see https://us-eq1.vwr.com/store/catalog/product.jsp?product_id=4698977

So if the rotameter is reading 0.275 and you're measuring it as 0.300 lpm with the graduated cylinder, that's within the rotameter specifications: 8% low but just 2.5% of full scale.  These rotameters are fine for setting the flow but for the best results you still need to measure the actual flow and use the actual flow rate to calculate results.

RE: the tubes causing different flow rates, it would be really helpful to have a vacuum gauge on the pump (temporarily) to evaluate this further--how much back pressure difference is there between tubes?

I agree you want to oversize the pump and then choke it down.  That should help get a consistent flow even with mild variations in tubes.  For critical orifices, the ideal choice is glass, see https://www.vitrocom.com/categories/view/43/Heavy-Wall-Glass-Tubing

I might have some data somewhere on what size would yield 300 ml/min but the opening is going to be tiny, probably less than 1 mm in diameter.  I don't think you're going to be able to drill that yourself.  You might be able to find one cheaper in brass though, like an orifice for a gas appliance pilot light.  Or maybe you could make one from a hypodermic needle?

Getting the orifice sized just right is going to take a lot of trial and error so using a valve is probably the easier option. Plus the cynic in me thinks the system flow will need adjusting now and then.
