---
cid: 11925
node: [Potentiostat Notes 2: Software](../notes/JSummers/12-20-2013/potentiostat-software)
nid: 9911
created_at: 2015-06-09 13:56:50 +0000
timestamp: 1433858210
uid: 304279
author: [JSummers](../profile/JSummers)
---

[@bjl1629](/profile/bjl1629)
Hi,  I have never done any EIS and have not gotten into its theoretical or practical aspects.  That said, where would we all be if we let total ignorance of a subject prevent us from poking at it?
As I understand it, EIS employs a two electrode system (working and counter) and applies an AC voltage signal on the counter electrode. The AC current on the working electrode is monitored to determine phase shift and intensity as a function of frequency (please correct me if I am wrong).
The main problem that I foresee has to do with the hardware that would generate the AC voltage at the counter electrode. The WheeStat hardware was designed for DC experiments where voltage changes are relatively slow and we put absolutely no effort into optimizing it for high frequency AC output.  That said, there may be a way to do high frequency work if it would be ok to have the signal be square wave instead of sinusoidal.  
The WheeStat has two inputs from the microcontroller that determine the applied voltage: they are called the input pin and the pulse pin.  The input pin is attached to a microcontroller pwm pin that outputs the main signal.  This signal is converted from a digital (pwm) signal to an analog (DC) signal using a two stage passive low-pass filter (see note* below for specs to calculate a time constant).   I dont think we can go very fast on this pin because of the low pass filter.  The pulse pin, however, is not on a filter.  Its function is to provide a square wave with a defined voltage that is overlayed on the input voltage (Used in differential pulse experiments).  It may be possible to achieve what you are trying to do by running square wave experiments on the pulse pin.
I should note, however, that there are also a couple of R/C pieces in the read circuit that might pose difficulties. 
Let me know what you think.
Jack

note* for determining time constant on input pin: R1 and R2 are 1K and 220 ohm, both caps are 4.7 uF.  This is isolated from the pulse input and the amplifier by another 1 K resistor

[JSummers](../profile/JSummers) replying to: [Potentiostat Notes 2: Software](../notes/JSummers/12-20-2013/potentiostat-software)

