---
node: Question: Would the Thermal Fishing Bob concept work as a SeaGlider robot?
author: ajawitz
created_at: 2015-06-22 15:30:42 +0000
timestamp: 1434987042
nid: 11984
cid: 11993
uid: 294634
---



[ajawitz](../profile/ajawitz) replying to: [Question: Would the Thermal Fishing Bob concept work as a SeaGlider robot?](../notes/ajawitz/06-17-2015/question-would-the-thermal-fishing-bob-concept-work-as-a-seaglider-robot)

----
I just can't resist the temptation to build one myself!  Even though the DIY version is probably useless in an ocean environment, it just looks so tempting!  Anyway, looking at the build instructions and the BOM one problem keeps popping up in that all the hardware components can only be ordered in bulk from McMaster-Carr.  Seeing as you mostly only need one of each component (washers, nuts, bolts etc...) they only ship in packs of 100!  I searched long and hard through Home Depot and Lowes and they don't seem to carry anything in those particular dimensions.  The build instructions look pretty detailed, so its hard to tell which parts you can get away with using a different size.  I guess I'll try printing out the printable parts first and then I can see what pieces need to fit.

  One detail I really appreciate about the Seaglide project compared to something like OpenROV is the 3D Printed parts are mostly small enough to fit the build volume of the low-cost desktop 3D Printers (like the Printrbot SImple) that are finally entering the mass market.  The only exception might be the "plunger" component which might be too tall for a desktop printers' Z-Axis... 