---
cid: 12008
node: [SkyShield v2 beta](../notes/cfastie/06-23-2015/skyshield-v2-beta)
nid: 11997
created_at: 2015-06-24 16:31:46 +0000
timestamp: 1435163506
uid: 423716
author: [tgran](../profile/tgran)
---

I think the fact that you're working through GitHub and publishing your scripts and discussions is a big positive step.  I'm also glad that David Wheeler is doing a detailed write-up on [his latest arduino RC-KAP set-up.](http://arch.ced.berkeley.edu/kap/discuss/index.php?p=/discussion/5325/repackaged-r-c-arduino-kap-controller/p1 )  Although it's fairly complex and specific.  And I think a plug and play system is great for helping get a large number of people up and running (and probably not having the resources to provide direct support on making modifications for different cameras, rigs, servos, etc).  The framework is there, so people can see what might be the base of more particular systems if they put in the effort on their own.

------
I'll be flying my prototypish arduino rig today.  The servos work on an external power controller, my mode switch is a Cherry thumbweel  switch, and I'm triggering the magic-lantern modified EOS-M with an infrared LED and the NEX-3 through a hacked shutter button and a two-part optocoupler (focus and shutter).  But it's much much much more cumbersome than your set-up.  I have ideas about setting up set pan positions with magnets and a reed-switch, and going back to one of my old rigs and using an accelerometer trigger.  I still have some CHDK cameras but I haven't been using them much (mostly for infrared).  Maybe I'll post a research note here later in the summer if I think I have anything useful to add.  Mostly I'm a tinkerer and get things to working, but a not so pretty state.  

I think your set-up is definitely going to be great for small rigs, plug and play, and the flexibility that you'll get with the mode switch.  I'll be patient :)  

[tgran](../profile/tgran) replying to: [SkyShield v2 beta](../notes/cfastie/06-23-2015/skyshield-v2-beta)

