---
node: Borrowing a Formaldehyde Kit, Take 1
author: DavidMack
created_at: 2015-06-25 22:36:56 +0000
timestamp: 1435271816
nid: 12003
cid: 12026
uid: 420189
---



[DavidMack](../profile/DavidMack) replying to: [Borrowing a Formaldehyde Kit, Take 1](../notes/mathew/06-25-2015/borrowing-a-formaldehyde-kit-take-1)

----
Looks nice.  I had an idea for an alternate gas volume measurement technique whereby you connect the exhaust side of the pump to a deflated bag then stop sampling when the bag is full.  With this technique you wouldn't need to measure the flow as accurately--you just sample until the bag is full and then the sample volume is dependent on the size of your bag.  The ideal inflatable would be something like one of these tedlar gas sampling bags because they're both durable and rigid--they don't expand like a balloon.  Example, $25 each http://www.zefon.com/store/zefon-tedlar-gas-sampling-bag.html

You would probably want to add a pop safety valve in line to prevent overfill and bursting ($8, mcmaster http://www.mcmaster.com/#standard-relief-valves/=xs6b2u )

I've never tried this but it might be a simpler approach.  You would want to characterize the exact volume of the bag in the lab before use but it wouldn't have to be exactly 9 liters.  You could do this by measuring the flow rate precisely then timing how long it takes to fill the bag.  Once this is done I would think the bag would be the same volume provided it doesn't spring a leak.  

I'm wondering if a $1 beach ball would work but it wouldn't be as durable.  Yet considering the cost of the tubes you could afford to pop the beach ball now and then.  You would need about a 10 inches diameter beach ball for 9 liter volume.

Just something to consider--maybe for a different, dirt cheap approach.  I know public lab is always looking for cheaper approaches!