---
cid: 12057
node: [Red filters in Infragram Webcams: a test](../notes/warren/05-27-2015/red-filters-in-infragram-webcams-a-test)
nid: 11846
created_at: 2015-06-30 17:40:45 +0000
timestamp: 1435686045
uid: 554
author: [cfastie](../profile/cfastie)
---

I think you're right that subjective is the wrong word. Maybe qualitative. A plant with an actual NDVI value of 0.5 may have an infragram NDVI value of 0.3. Two plants that actually differ by 0.4 NDVI values may differ by only 0.1 at infragram.org. Infragrammar allows users to adjust the results, so those results can be subjective. 

I guess it's straightforward to port Ned's math to infragram.org, but following the entire calibration procedure is probably not for the typical infragram.org user.  

 1. You need two targets of known reflectivity in the red and NIR
 2. The targets must be exposed well
 3. You have to tell the routine where the targets are in the photo

To do the correction for  extraneous NIR in the red channel

1. You have to know something about the filter you're using
2. You have to know something about the sensor you're using
3. You have to figure out if that correction actually works

Ned doesn't know yet if a camera with auto white balance will give good results. Ned's procedure will have to be tested on an infragram web cam.

I won't be able to do any tests for a few weeks (tundra beckons). All I need is some images of interesting test scenes with good (or bracketed) exposure, I don't need the camera. Maybe that is a good agenda item for LEAFFEST.




[cfastie](../profile/cfastie) replying to: [Red filters in Infragram Webcams: a test](../notes/warren/05-27-2015/red-filters-in-infragram-webcams-a-test)

