---
node: Low floor, high ceiling for Public Lab research notes
author: mathew
created_at: 2015-07-01 18:54:36 +0000
timestamp: 1435776876
nid: 12027
cid: 12080
uid: 4
---



[mathew](../profile/mathew) replying to: [Low floor, high ceiling for Public Lab research notes](../notes/warren/07-01-2015/low-floor-high-ceiling-for-public-lab-research-notes)

----
I don't misunderstand this note, Jeff. It has two sections: a diagnosis of the problem of research note posting, and a proposed remedy-- working on shorter form content strategies.  I'm not addressing the question of whether shorter-form content is a good idea right now, I'm addressing the incompleteness of the diagnosis for not taking seriously the idea that Markdown is a user interface issue effecting content posting:

"The research note posting interface has been carefully crafted to emphasize simplicity and clarity. But it's definitely not designed for longer-form work. Some on the organizers list and on Github have argued persuasively for a richer, more powerful editor that is simultaneously easier to use without knowing Markdown, the simple formatting system we use.Many of the above issues seem to push us in different directions. What I'd like to explore is the possibility of a shorter research note format, perhaps as an alternative in parallel with a longer version."

Am I misreading that? it says:
1) the notes are simple and use a simple formatting system right now
2) it isn't designed for long-form work, and we have a persuasive case that WYSIWYG would help that.

Then there's this statement:
"But what about everyone who didn't post? I'd like to focus on that hard-to-measure group who we didn't manage to entice into posting something. Basically -- selection bias: we don't have feedback or input from those who aren't participating."

But we DO have some feedback from some people who aren't posting and they've been complaining about Markdown since we started using it four years ago.

After harping on the usability of Markdown for four years, yes, it is now a Github priority on development.  But is is actually one? Is it recognized by our Web Team as a priority, as a problem affecting posting? Or is it begrudgingly accepted as something in-demand? if the Web team isn't writing it into their diagnosis of usability issues, I fear it won't be. 
