---
node: Desktop Spectrometry Kit (V3) for VNIR Field Spectroscopy
author: warren
created_at: 2015-07-11 15:35:11 +0000
timestamp: 1436628911
nid: 12047
cid: 12149
uid: 1
---



[warren](../profile/warren) replying to: [Desktop Spectrometry Kit (V3) for VNIR Field Spectroscopy](../notes/lukebrown/07-11-2015/desktop-spectrometry-kit-v3-for-vnir-field-spectroscopy)

----
HI, Luke! Great post. What paper did you use for the sleeve? We chose the black paper as it's absorbent in the near infrared range, but do you think the extra light is entering through cracks and joints in the enclosure, or through the paper itself? How bright was your light such that it got into the case? How bright must light be before it begins entering the chamber?

We'd love to see a picture of the sleeve -- its design may answer some of these questions, along with an exact description of the type of material. 

It's great to see the ASD FieldSpec data too -- is it so smooth because of a longer exposure, with time-averaging to reduce noise? Or is it otherwise smoothed? Tests on an Ocean Optics device seemed similarly noisy to our device: http://publiclab.org/notes/warren/09-23-2014/oil-fluorescence-scanning-on-an-ocean-optics-spectrometer so I'm curious why it's so smooth in yours. 

If the ASD is calibrated, it'd be really terrific to get a baseline sensitivity graph for our webcams with a full-spectrum light. They may not be totally exposure linear (though [@stoft](/profile/stoft) has more data on this) but just knowing how sensitive our type of webcam is to each wavelength would be a good thing to know, and we could in theory build in a correction to Spectral Workbench. I wonder how much it varies camera to camera. [@stoft](/profile/stoft) - do you have thoughts on this -- maybe I'm overlooking something?