---
node: Desktop Spectrometry Kit (V3) for VNIR Field Spectroscopy
author: lukebrown
created_at: 2015-07-11 20:23:05 +0000
timestamp: 1436646185
nid: 12047
cid: 12154
uid: 444973
---



[lukebrown](../profile/lukebrown) replying to: [Desktop Spectrometry Kit (V3) for VNIR Field Spectroscopy](../notes/lukebrown/07-11-2015/desktop-spectrometry-kit-v3-for-vnir-field-spectroscopy)

----
[@warren](/profile/warren) Thanks!  The sleeve was just a piece of corrugated cardboard, about 3 mm thick, folded around the enclosure and secured with some tape.  I’m afraid I can’t provide a photo right now as I’m away from home.

I believe light is entering through the paper itself.  It’s quite thin, particularly on the lid where there’s only one layer, so there is likely to be some transmittance.  When looking at the webcam image itself I was sometimes able to discern the shadow of my fingers!

The experiments were carried out under bright sunlight, so this may not be so much of an issue if other sources of light are used, but it definitely is for field spectroscopy.  Having said this, even under indoor lighting I did notice the black areas of the webcam image appeared darker when the sleeve was used.  This probably needs some further experimentation.

In terms of the ASD data, they are the average of three samples - each time you take a measurement, the average of a specified number of samples is produced to reduce noise as you mention.  You may be correct about a longer integration time too - this is automatically determined when the device is optimised for the current illumination conditions.  Dark current measurements are also obtained during optimisation using an electro-mechanical shutter.  They are automatically subtracted from subsequent measurements.  I'm not familiar with the Ocean Optics device, but if dark current subtraction wasn’t undertaken this might provide some further noise reduction?

The ASD is calibrated, although getting access to it would be subject to approval - I’d need to have chat with some people in the department.  The ASD data presented here were actually collected as part of some work for my master's degree.
