---
cid: 12201
node: [Potentiostat Notes 2: Software](../notes/JSummers/12-20-2013/potentiostat-software)
nid: 9911
created_at: 2015-07-15 18:39:17 +0000
timestamp: 1436985557
uid: 304279
author: [JSummers](../profile/JSummers)
---

[@bjl1629](/profile/bjl1629)
Hi,  This comment addresses the question of sampling frequency and I will discuss the cycling issue in the next comment.
The WheeStat is set up to sample on 10 mV steps.  If you are using 100 mV / s scan rate, that is where the 10 Hz frequency you observe comes from.  
If you want to increase the scan frequency and keep the 10 mV steps, then it is a simple matter of increasing the scan rate (mV/sec) in the GUI.  If you want to keep the scan rate at 100 mV/s and increase your sampling frequency, that will require changing the microcontroller code.    Somewhere around line 57 in the main tab of the Energia program (it should be called something like WheeStat5_4a.pde) is a line that says "int pwmRes = 330;".  That is the voltage resolution.  It means that you are breaking up your 3.3 volt working range into 330 steps, each being 10 mV.  If you want to increase the resolution by a factor of five, multiply this value by that same factor: "int pwmRes = 1650;".  That will give you two mV steps.  You will also have to change some code in the setupRun tab.  You will need to change the digital values of the initial and final voltages (called dInit and dFnl) to reflect the change in voltage resolution.  These are found in the setupRun tab starting around line 58.  Find the line that says "dInit = mVinit/10 + halfRes;" and change it to read "dInit = mVinit/2 + halfRes;".  Make a similar change to the line a few down that calculates dFnl.  You will also need to decrease the stepTime by a factor of five.  The stepTime is defined around line 88.  Around line 126 in the setupRun tab will be a line that says: "dOff = dOff1 + offAdj;".  After that line, add this one:  "dOff = 5*dOff;"  This line is necessary to adjust the current offset to accommodate the change in pwmRes.
Hope this helps-Jack

[JSummers](../profile/JSummers) replying to: [Potentiostat Notes 2: Software](../notes/JSummers/12-20-2013/potentiostat-software)

