---
cid: 12202
node: [Potentiostat Notes 2: Software](../notes/JSummers/12-20-2013/potentiostat-software)
nid: 9911
created_at: 2015-07-15 19:16:57 +0000
timestamp: 1436987817
uid: 304279
author: [JSummers](../profile/JSummers)
---

[@bjl1629](/profile/bjl1629) Hi,  I made a mistake in the above comment, referring to the Energia code as being a pde file.  It is actually an ino file.  The GUI programs are written in Processing, which are pde files.  Sorry for the confusion.
Driving the WheeStat to cycle through a saw tooth pattern should be fairly easy, but would be best if done with some modification of the GUI as well as the microcontroller code.  I would do this by adding another option to the "mode" dropdown list.  Open  the WheeStat.pde file using "Processing".  In the "Dropdown_lists" tab, on about line 44 add: "mode.addItem("CV_REP",8);"  In the  main tab, on about line 252 it will say "if(runMode=="logASV"){".  Change that to "if(runMode=="logASV" || runMode=="CV_REP"){".  These changes will allow you to program the gui to tell the microcontroller to run repetitive CVs (I think).  You might also want to make the dropdown list longer so you can see the last option (there is a scroll bar, but that is not as convenient).
There is a parameter in the Energia code called "runs" that is transferred from the GUI whether it is used or not.  In the Energia code, main tab, at line 72, add "int CV_REP = 8;"
In the ramp tab, add the following beginning at line 23 (before "if (mode == CV){"):
  "If (mode == CV_REP){
   if(dInit <dFnl){
     for (int j = 1; j<runs; j++){
       nRamp(dFnl);
       pRamp(dInit);
       }
    nRamp(dFnl);
    }

  else {
     for (int j = 1; j<runs; j++){
       pRamp(dFnl);
       nRamp(dInit);
       }
    pRamp(dFnl);
    }
}"

I think that should work but I havent tried it yet.--let me know what happens.  Jack

 

[JSummers](../profile/JSummers) replying to: [Potentiostat Notes 2: Software](../notes/JSummers/12-20-2013/potentiostat-software)

