---
cid: 12211
node: [Low floor, high ceiling for Public Lab research notes](../notes/warren/07-01-2015/low-floor-high-ceiling-for-public-lab-research-notes)
nid: 12027
created_at: 2015-07-17 00:19:59 +0000
timestamp: 1437092399
uid: 294634
author: [ajawitz](../profile/ajawitz)
---

  User-documentation issues have been THE most challenging problem for just about every grassroots organization I've ever worked with.  For projects/campaigns where the primary object was textual/software based, github has always emerged as the best option, even when you factor in the learning curve for non-programmers (and I say this as someone who only recently started identifying as a programmer...). The github format somehow always led to frustration when it came to documenting projects with any kind of physical element however.  When my hopes for a "github for hardware" finally did materialize with the likes of Upverter etc...  I found the learning curve favored those with professional engineering backgrounds even more than Github does with programmers.

   In this context, I found the research note format to be by far the best grassroots, user-documentation platform I have yet used!  The key to its success IMHO is in its flexibility.  Any single entry can variously serve as a narrative blog post, a Github readme, a step by step tutorial, a journal entry or a discussion forum.  On the other hand, I could see how the very flexibility that makes it so useful could also make it difficult to evaluate its effectiveness.  I have noticed my posts have been getting less comment activity then a year ago when I could always count on a lively discussion following every new post.  Part of this might be related to the separate discussion forums but then again I've noticed activity on almost EVERY listserv-style discussion list I've been involved in has been declining  too...  

  I have no idea if the metrics support this or not, but my point is that the research notes have the ability to evolve in ways that a discussion forum doesn't.  So sometimes I'll post a note on something that'll collect dust for months on end and suddenly I'll get an email out of the blue from somebody who saw it and wants to collaborate and the project springs back to life...

 In order to ensure the format as a whole continues to evolve, I suggest we take advantage of the power of Markdown!

   Speaking as a relative newcomer to the programming world, I like to think I can speak with a certain degree of confidence on what can be considered "accessible" and what is an overly technical interface. So folks will have to trust me when I say MARKDOWN IS NOT OVERLY TECHNICAL!!!  Especially, when it is presented in the research note editor!  However, so long as we're using it, we might as well take full advantage of its flexibility. This could potentially mean much more than editing from a mobile phone.  The cross-platform nature of markdown formatting could be used to    fully realize the multi-functional potential the research notes have already demonstrated.

In other words, instead of a note functioning "like a blog" why not allow the content to be reformatted AS A REAL BLOG!  I've been experimenting with something along these lines with various markdown-based blogging platforms like GHOST.  Unfortunately, hosting requirements proved too much of a headache for me to stick with GHOST. Other platforms like Jekyll, offer a unique solution to the hosting problem by hosting the content in a Github repo via the gh-pages feature.  The Ruby-based Jekyll code has always been another barrier for me however, but more recently platforms like hubpress.io have combined the best of both Jekyll and GHOST by providing a node.js framework hosted using gh-pages.
Since all the posts would be written in markdown anyway, it would be amazing if we could use some of our research notes as blog posts and vice versa. So if I have a project I would like to share, I would only have to write it once, and the same document could transform into a discussion forum post, blog post, readme file in a code repository etc...


[ajawitz](../profile/ajawitz) replying to: [Low floor, high ceiling for Public Lab research notes](../notes/warren/07-01-2015/low-floor-high-ceiling-for-public-lab-research-notes)

