---
cid: 12224
node: [Musings: Spectrometer Stability](../notes/stoft/07-17-2015/musings-spectrometer-stability)
nid: 12074
created_at: 2015-07-17 19:32:45 +0000
timestamp: 1437161565
uid: 54025
author: [stoft](../profile/stoft)
---

Thanks - Lots of great feedback.
- First, remember that we are dealing with light with extremely short wavelengths -- which is why most optical experiments are mounted on granite slabs.

- I found that with velcro it was impossible to maintain a fixed alignment of the parts.

- I found that even the double-stick tape holding the camera was marginal for stability -- remember that if the camera angle moves, the position of the spectrum in the display moves (not the relative wavelength cal) which means the pixel data is subject to this noise -- i.e. location of peaks can change during your measurements.

- The Spec is much less sensitive to the slit moving sideways but a lot more sensitive in the other direction. If the mechanics locating the slit relative to the camera is not stable, then then that will translate into measurement noise.

[ By noise, I include anything from random noise to jitter to low-frequency shifting. This means that if the housing "bends" a tiny bit between sample measurements you will no longer have a single reference point.]

- Not quite: Note in the plot the difference between the V3.0 and V3.1 (ignore the 1600 pix plot for now). The effective double peak resolution bandwidth was significantly improved because of the improved mechanical stability. No, the camera, DVD and slit did not change, so it was purely a result of lower noise. If the spectrometer stops  bouncing around, the rest of the system is able to perform to it's measurement limits. Going to 1600 pix was not much of an additional improvement -- largely because of other system limits which mask the effect of more pixels.

- While a piece of the black paper, on a flat surface, is dimensionally quite stable ( in 2D) a U-shape or even a double-U-shape as a folded enclosure is NOT dimensionally stable (3D). Yes, the board in 3.0 was a good idea, but then the DVD was mounted on folded paper (wobbly), stuck on with velcro (still more wobbly) and then the slit was held between paper at the end of the paper cover -- which was NOT attached to the board (yet more wobbly). Not a stable, rigid design for an optical measurement system.

- Yes, the black paper is good for low reflections and for blocking out ambient light -- in fact, I found the 3.0 to be generally very good at keeping ambient light noise out of the spectral signal. The problem is using the black paper for mechanical stability of the optical path. That is why I experimented with wood and glue to create a rigid optical path and then let that assembly "float" inside the black paper cover.

- Given the above, when coupling to another module (i.e. the oil-test-kit) the concept is to mechanically couple the V3.1 wood platform to an oil-kit wood platform and let the black paper covers handle the ambient light and internal reflections.

- The amplitude effects are important if you are expecting to compare sample spectra amplitudes and amplitude stability is important if you want to compare measurements between setups or days or measurement devices. Remember, as of yet there is still no process for users to do any form of amplitude calibration or even amplitude reference for measurements.

- Yes, the attenuator is a good idea and, since it is filtering the light source, it's sensitivity is lower. From a user point of view however, there is a need to ensure and assure the user can select a single attenuation step, not a partial step, just for repeatability. A continuously variable attenuator could also work (and maybe eliminate this issue) but it is still best to ensure the setting, whatever it is, remains unchanged over the life of the measurements and sample changes during measurement comparison.

- When trying to measure the oil spectra, I was simply unable to keep the paper-to-paper alignment stable enough to reduce the amplitude noise to below ~10% while holding all the parts -- and the whole assembly would shift while sitting on the desk. This is not a recipe for a stable measurement instrument even for PLab.

- Yes, the issue of kit cost is real, but at least the material cost in my 3.1 prototype was very cheap -- leading me to believe it is possible to keep the kit cost very low by scaling the design of manufacturing the component parts and being creative about the design.

- What "kind of oil comparisons" are more important? Any broadband spectral comparison will require a stable amplitude -- which so far, there is little control. If you compare 5 oils and you get a nice spread of broad peaks, then you know the measurement is sensitive to a change in oils. If you always did these 5 oils (and they and the system never change) then that might start to be some form of reference. But if the system is not sufficiently stable, then you don't have a reference. I think it is possible but I just don't see the component design is, as yet, sufficient to send out measurement kits where 95% of users can get it right the first time.

I do believe that PLab can, in fact, produce kits which are stable, can be calibrated and will be repeatable from user to user such that results can be rationally compared; the components are just not there yet. I may be alone in this, but I believe the future value of the kits is very dependent on the measurement stability, repeatability and ability to verify measurement specifications of the first official devices to go to users. I believe it can happen.


[stoft](../profile/stoft) replying to: [Musings: Spectrometer Stability](../notes/stoft/07-17-2015/musings-spectrometer-stability)

