---
node: Stepwise procedures to guide users through testing
author: warren
created_at: 2015-07-23 19:24:54 +0000
timestamp: 1437679494
nid: 12062
cid: 12252
uid: 1
---



[warren](../profile/warren) replying to: [Stepwise procedures to guide users through testing](../notes/Sreyanth/07-14-2015/stepwise-procedures-to-guide-users-through-testing)

----
Procedures would only have data if, for example, one step was to compare it to a known spectrum, or look at it alongside a set. A ProcedureRun would store all the data produced by someone walking through the steps of a Procedure. 

Listening to window.close() might not be as good as actually generating a unique key for a spectrum which would link it back -- what if they want to do the scanning on a different machine? Like with a smartphone? Why don't we:

* Initiate a Capture window load with `/capture?for=<id>&key=<key>` where `<id>` is the primary key of the ProcedureRun and `<key>` is the key of the request (assuming there could be multiple captures requested) 
* the Capture window would append a tag `for:<id>:<key>` or maybe separately `for:<id>` and `key:<key>` or something? We could start to hide this kind of tag from the user unless they really want to see it 
* the Procedure interface would poll the server every 3 seconds for `/spectrums/<id>/key/<key>` until it returned a spectrum_id
* the it would go to the next step

> all the spectrums that belong to the procedure run at various steps

Maybe we mean the same thing. The spectrum would have the tag as a kind of crude join table. The tag would include the ProcedureRun id. Doesn't make the above possible?