---
cid: 12261
node: [Musings: Spectrometer Stability](../notes/stoft/07-17-2015/musings-spectrometer-stability)
nid: 12074
created_at: 2015-07-24 05:02:10 +0000
timestamp: 1437714130
uid: 54025
author: [stoft](../profile/stoft)
---

Yes, I understand the wish for simple, cheap and insensitive to construction or handling -- but I'd like to propose some alternative, yet associated, perspectives.

- Look again at the V3.0 / V3.1 / high-rez plot. It is not the "shift" that is of such importance as it is the resolution -- i.e., look at the 'sharpness' of the definition of the double-peak. Just the one change from cardboard to wood, produced much sharper peaks -- better defined. What this says is that not having stability, guarantees noise. Note that the data acquired for all 3 plots was with the Spec just sitting there with no mechanical forces on it at all.

- I apologize for insufficient clarity on the concept of mechanically coupling the Spec to the OilTest modules. I was suggesting the Spec and Oil modules are independent components, so the Spec can be used by itself. The Spec would just have a simple means to "connect" to the Oil test module as desired -- but there would be a real mechanical linkage such that the two would act as a rigid system.

- Amplitude: Whether you try to collect absolute amplitude data or relative data, either one should be repeatable. So, if you do the same setup a week later with the same sample, you should read the same values -- within a "reasonable" tolerance. Otherwise, the value of your data is very limited and comparing data between users and over time will be of even less value. Granted, if you have a stable reference, relative amplitude is easier to make reproducible. However, there really is not way to just hand-wave amplitude out of the way and 'ignore it' and then attempt to compare results.

- The more variables which the user must or can adjust or can/cannot control the less meaningful the results will be and the less comparison of results will have any meaning and the greater the difficulty in ensuring and assuring users are actually measuring the same things. This is simple the nature of scientific measurements.

- Prototypes, Products and Manufacturing: A first proto just has to prove feasibility. A first Beta needs to show viability to build many. A product will have reproducible specs and manufacturing tolerances. When you have user construction, the design must then have sufficient limits such that the user tolerances will not exceed the expected performance tolerances. We're not there yet. Generally, attempting to re-design-in fixes (afterthought) to an existing product is more costly to everyone and to the product than doing it "right" in the first place.

- True, my V3.1 did not have an ideal set of parts for simple manufacturing -- the parts were cheap, but there was too much labor (time) to make them relative to your desired goals. However, V3.1 was a prototype, not a model design ready for manufacture. It just proved the value of stability and the viability of simple materials to get there.

- I'm suggesting a new perspective: 1) modular design, 2) build stable then just cover it, 3) provide means to 'connect' the stable part of the Spec to the stable part of the OTK. Make the Spec a solid functional block and then there's no need to 'fix' it later. Yes, the design phase is separate from this discussion -- that's a thought-experiment phase.


[stoft](../profile/stoft) replying to: [Musings: Spectrometer Stability](../notes/stoft/07-17-2015/musings-spectrometer-stability)

