---
cid: 12318
node: [IR Pass Filters and a 2 camera NDVI Setup](../notes/dlaflash/09-21-2014/ir-pass-filters-and-a-2-camera-ndvi-setup)
nid: 11167
created_at: 2015-08-03 15:29:37 +0000
timestamp: 1438615777
uid: 554
author: [cfastie](../profile/cfastie)
---

vdiallonort,

If you are going to use a single camera with the IR block filter removed, there are two options. If you can take two photos without moving the camera, one photo can be taken with an NIR pass filter (e.g., 720 nm or 750 nm) and another can be taken with an IR block filter just like the one you removed. Then the two photos of the exact same scene can be aligned and NDVI can be computed for each pixel. It might be hard or expensive to buy a 58mm IR block filter. The other option is to use a filter that blocks all blue light. The blue channel of the camera will capture only NIR, and the red channel will capture red and also NIR. The blue and red channels can be used to compute NDVI. The red channel is contaminated with NIR, but at least you don't have to align the two photos.

Another option is to use a second camera that has not been modified to get a normal photo of visible light. Use your modified camera with an NIR filter (720 or 750 nm) to take a photo of the exact same scene then align the two photos and compute NDVI with one channel from each photo.

You can use a narrow band filter to capture just pure red light (e.g., 650 nm). However, a normal camera has Bayer filters over each pixel and some of them pass only red light. So a normal camera already provides a mostly red channel (but with a much broader range and usually also some NIR). So a narrow band filter can produce better data for NDVI, but exposure times can be long and the filters are expensive.

Chris

[cfastie](../profile/cfastie) replying to: [IR Pass Filters and a 2 camera NDVI Setup](../notes/dlaflash/09-21-2014/ir-pass-filters-and-a-2-camera-ndvi-setup)

