---
cid: 12360
node: [Buoyancy-Driven Underwater Glider](../notes/ajawitz/07-11-2015/buoyancy-driven-underwater-glider)
nid: 12049
created_at: 2015-08-11 14:05:52 +0000
timestamp: 1439301952
uid: 294634
author: [ajawitz](../profile/ajawitz)
---



    Do you know how deep you can take the "waterproof" DS18B20 temp sensor? It may be just designed to take it as deep as the cable is long -[@danbeavers](/profile/danbeavers)

I've never heard of any depth limitations with the ds18b20.  Digital temp sensors have different properties than analog devices like the TMP36.  According to the product description at http://www.adafruit.com/products/381-

    Because they are digital, you don't get any signal degradation even over long distances! These 1-wire digital temperature sensors are fairly precise (±0.5°C over much of the range) and can give up to 12 bits of precision from the onboard digital-to-analog converter. They work great with any microcontroller using a single digital pin, and you can even connect multiple ones to the same pin, each one has a unique 64-bit ID burned in at the factory to differentiate them. Usable with 3.0-5.0V systems.

 Again, the only major drawback is the additional code involved in parsing the output.  Not only do you need both the Dallas Temperature Sensor Library and the OneWire library, but the various library version often have compatibility issues depending on which version of the Arduino IDE you are using.  Plus, even though it is a basic concept, I always seem to get tripped up by the pull-up resistor... 

[ajawitz](../profile/ajawitz) replying to: [Buoyancy-Driven Underwater Glider](../notes/ajawitz/07-11-2015/buoyancy-driven-underwater-glider)

