---
cid: 1244
node: [Setup for UV Testing with Specrtrometer](../notes/joshmc/4-28-2012/setup-uv-testing-specrtrometer)
nid: 1833
created_at: 2012-09-04 16:57:36 +0000
timestamp: 1346777856
uid: 995
author: [JoshMc](../profile/JoshMc)
---

Posegate - We're actually talking about a few different tasks.  One is the ability to trim the ends off the left and right of the graph, so that only the area in the visible spectrum is included.  This would help eliminate error from second-order spectra or reflections inside our spectrometers.   The second is the ability to remove "noise", which could definitely be compared to the tare function on a scale.  This would subtract a certain number from every point on the graph, which would help eliminate error from light entering the spectrometer other than the spectrum itself.  The difference from a tare function would be that it have a minimum of zero.  If you tare a scale with the container on it, then remove the container, it will probably give you a negative reading, but a negative amount of light does not make sense here.  The third task is to normalize the data, which can't really be compared to a scale.  To normalize data means we have a a few lines plotted on the same graph, and we want to be able to compare them to each other, so we adjust them to each have the same area under the line.  This is done by adding up every point on the line, then finding a number to multiply by that will cause that total area to equal 1 (or any other arbitrary number, as long as it's the same each time).  Then we multiply each data point by that number, and re-plot the line.  When this is done for each line, they'll all be normalized and ready to compare to each other.

DSuds - Sorry the key is tough to read on the graph.  I used JPG because I just don't like PNG files.  When I save as a PNG is so often ends up a different size than what I was looking at before, and that bugs me.  I need to take a little time and figure them out, but it's easier just to grouch about it and stick to JPGs ;)

Warren - Again, I don't know what the most efficient way of writing the code will be, but I can outline what needs to happen, in what order.

1.  Calibrate the spectrometer.  It would be helpful if this calibration could be saved on your computer, so you didn't have re-do it each time or wait until it was uploaded to calibrate, because this needs to be the first step each time.  After the calibration is saved, it could be an option in the settings to remove the calibration or re-calibrate when necessary.  If you want to get fancy, you could offer a few "device profiles" so if someone is using a few different spectrometers they could save calibrations for each one.

2.  Trim down to only the visible spectrum.  It would be helpful to have a default range that could be adjusted by the user.  If you're thinking of implementing this on the live capture program, it could be a checkbox so that it can be turned on or off while you capture.

3.  De-noise the spectrum.  Again, this could be a check-box to turn on and off.  If it doesn't take too much processing power, it could have an automatic or manual setting.  The automatic setting could detect the lowest value in the range and subtract that from every point.  The manual setting could be adjustable by the user, and maybe display a discreet warning if you have it to high and it's giving negative values at some points.

4.  Normalize the graph.  With this one it's pretty important to be able to turn it on and off easily, as it will probably only be wanted around half the time.  The easiest way to normalize, like I wrote above, is to first find the sum of all the points, then divide 1 by that sum to find your normalization coefficient, then multiply each data point by that normalization coefficient.  If you want to check it, re-sum the new data points and make sure the sum is 1.  I don't know if this could be done live.  If not, it could be an option to normalize the data after you capture the spectrum.  In fact, if you are doing this in the capture program, you'll want it to record that normalization coefficient somewhere so that the data for the original intensity of the source is not lost.

[JoshMc](../profile/JoshMc) replying to: [Setup for UV Testing with Specrtrometer](../notes/joshmc/4-28-2012/setup-uv-testing-specrtrometer)

