---
node: Riffle: sensor board approach
author: cfastie
created_at: 2015-08-28 16:08:35 +0000
timestamp: 1440778115
nid: 12179
cid: 12467
uid: 554
---



[cfastie](../profile/cfastie) replying to: [Riffle: sensor board approach](../notes/donblair/08-28-2015/riffle-sensor-board-approach)

----
This solder-yourself thing is a tough issue. The Riffle itself is always going to be surface mount, so you are going to have to manufacture them somehow and sell completed units. I assume you plan to have surface mount versions of all the sensor boards which will be manufactured and available for purchase.  In addition you propose to have solder-yourself versions of the sensor boards so people can assemble their own. But won't it actually cost just about the same to sell a kit with through hole components as it will to sell a mass manufactured sensor board? Having two versions of each sensor board will complicate and slow your development process (every solder-yourself kit requires a comprehensive how-to-solder-this instruction guide) and maybe not save anybody much money.

It would be good to know how many potential customers would be willing to save a few dollars by soldering their own sensor board. These people will have to pay real money ($150?) to get a Riffle, so a few dollars savings on a sensor board might not attract many customers. I have been offering both solder-yourself kits and assembled and tested units of the [SkyShield](http://kaptery.com/product/skyshield-autokap-controller), and the ratio of sales is about 1:10 (i.e., I sold one kit). This surprised me considering the high geek quotient of the Public Lab community and the current importance of the "maker" mind-set. I think the truth is that there is still an incredibly tiny population of people who are prepared to solder a circuit board. And many of these solder-capable people are happy to pay a few bucks to avoid the time and risk of soldering.

Geeky people want gadgets that solve problems. A few of these are willing to do some soldering, but these are not your primary customers. Your target audience is people who need to know about their water. Almost none of these want anything to do with soldering.

Chris