---
cid: 12474
node: [Riffle: sensor board approach](../notes/donblair/08-28-2015/riffle-sensor-board-approach)
nid: 12179
created_at: 2015-08-29 19:26:25 +0000
timestamp: 1440876385
uid: 43651
author: [donblair](../profile/donblair)
---

Thanks for all the good thoughts, wow!

Chris -- I think you're right -- your experience and our friend Rui's experience is that most folks don't want to solder something themselves.  

Mathew -- definitely, a soldered, through-hole design like this isn't really the way to allow folks to swap out components -- e.g., changing the value of the capacitor in the circuit.  If we want to allow for that, we should try to include screw terminals and the like, as you suggest.  

And I agree: we should definitely also keep the surface mount versions; the majority of folks likely won't really want to tinker with the hardware, and are more interested in collecting data with the device. Distributing a through-hole DIY kit likely isn't really worth the trouble.  

I think, though, that I will keep at least a few through-hole designs like this online, along with pictures of an assembled version, a list of parts (and places to buy them), and instructions for ordering the PCB from e.g. OSHPark.  In my experience, and in that of most folks I've talked to about this (including Rui, Ben -- and I bet this is consonant with your trajectory, too, Chris), making the transition from 'user' to 'tinkerer' to 'circuit board designer' is much easier with through-hole components.  Everyone I know personally who knows how to design a PCB began by designing through-hole boards.  There's just something significantly more accessible about being able to design one's first PCB using the same components one uses on a breadboard. 

So, for the majority -- surface mount, pre-assembled, and focus on simply collecting good data -- which is already hugely useful, and presents a world of challenges.

But in order to truly open up the design to contributions from the community, my notion of a process that might nicely facilitate this would be: 

- ordering enough breadboards and through-hole components so that folks could prototype the conductivity and temperature circuit on the breadboard, and test it with an Arduino UNO
- ordering enough PCBs so that everyone in the workshop could solder their own conductivity and temperature daughter boards, and repeat the measurement using the UNO
- place one of the daughter boards on a Riffle, and in a bottle, and log data 
- place a surface mount board with an identical circuit on a Riffle and in a bottle, and log data

Going further:  the next step for this design is to use a voltage divider to lower the voltage that enters the water, and amplify it with an op-amp when it emerges from the water.  So, for a community that had some interest in technical development, I'd pose this as a problem, pointing them to appropriate components and online literature, and leading them through the process of making a simple change to a PCB in Eagle and ordering it from OSH Park.  

This discussion brings up really interesting questions regarding the audience we're aiming for with such technologies, and points to how diverse these audiences might actually be.  We do have the constraint of finite resources and time, so we can only e.g. imagine distributing a few versions of any particular kit. But we can, in parallel, provides links to useful alternative approaches that provide useful 'hooks' into the project for various levels of technical ability -- especially, hooks that will help grow a community of 'developers', not just 'users'.  Perhaps this just means putting some time into making designs like this and documenting them sufficiently -- though, of course, as Chris points out (and knows well!) documentation *also* requires a significant amount of energy ...

Speaking of which, I'm fully in tl;dr territory here  -- damn you, caffeine!

[donblair](../profile/donblair) replying to: [Riffle: sensor board approach](../notes/donblair/08-28-2015/riffle-sensor-board-approach)

