---
cid: 12561
node: [Hacking trail cameras to document blasts on Mountaintop Removal sites](../notes/LauraChipley/09-18-2015/hacking-trail-cameras-to-document-blasts-on-mountaintop-removal-sites)
nid: 12225
created_at: 2015-09-19 14:00:38 +0000
timestamp: 1442671238
uid: 554
author: [cfastie](../profile/cfastie)
---

Starting with a trail camera (game camera) is a good idea because they solve two important issues: 

1. they are weather proof
2. some standard alkaline batteries power them for weeks or months. 

Replacing the trail camera's motion sensor with a sound sensor might be easy because a $5 Arduino clone and $2 microphone should suffice. Making this sound sensor weatherproof is easy, but powering it for weeks or months is not trivial. 

The trail cameras have figured out how to keep a motion sensor on all the time without using much power and then turn the camera on very quickly when needed. If you can add the new sound sensor into the circuit, all you have to do is find a power supply that keeps the Arduino on for a few weeks at a time (or as long as you need).

An easy hack would be to use a trail camera as is and use a separate Arduino sound sensor to trigger a servo that moves something in front the trail camera's motion sensor. 

Another option is to use a $40 ebay Canon Powershot running CHDK which can be programmed to start shooting when a pulse to the USB port from an external Arduino sound sensor is detected. But the camera has to be on constantly and the batteries in a Powershot will keep it running for only a few hours. Some Powershots have adapters that allow them to be plugged into wall power, so if power is available this could be an easy hack. That is, you could set this up at a window in your house for under $50.

Chris

 

[cfastie](../profile/cfastie) replying to: [Hacking trail cameras to document blasts on Mountaintop Removal sites](../notes/LauraChipley/09-18-2015/hacking-trail-cameras-to-document-blasts-on-mountaintop-removal-sites)

