---
cid: 12607
node: [Ideas on opening "open hardware"](../notes/liz/09-28-2015/ideas-on-opening-open-hardware)
nid: 12250
created_at: 2015-10-01 02:32:37 +0000
timestamp: 1443666757
uid: 554
author: [cfastie](../profile/cfastie)
---

I’m not sure how the structurelessness issue relates to the idea of open hardware development. Structurelessness certainly relates to the unconference style of running the Public Lab Barnraising, so the Joreen essay is important reading for the organizers of that event. 

The major Public Lab tools (aerial mapping, spectrometer, infrared camera) have been greatly modified over the years using the fork and merge model. Many community members have improved the design of all these tools and made new versions. For several reasons only some of the forks have been merged into the Public Lab trunk.

Some aspects of the open software development model map poorly onto hardware development simply because it’s easier to fork and merge bits than atoms. Certain types of forks are easy to merge (using a different grating material in the spectrometer), but others require complete redesign (using a different slit-to-grating distance) or finding a new supplier in Asia (using a different camera). 

Few community members have the same motivation as Public Lab for modifying a tool. Public Lab is focused on designs that: 1) are amenable to easy-to-assemble kits, 2) exploit bulk purchase of components to reduce cost, 3) are simple to use, 4) have a low total purchase price, 5) used repurposed material, and 6) are inexpensive to ship.

Most community members who modify tool designs are focused primarily on making a single device with improved quality. Some features of these forks are eventually merged into the Public Lab trunk, but most are not. It is probably much easier to find a community member who is creatively motivated to “make a better tool” than to find one who is excited to “make a better product” for Public Lab to distribute. 

Finding the balance between those two motivations is key.  I don’t know how likely it is that an unpaid community member will be the right person to do this.


[cfastie](../profile/cfastie) replying to: [Ideas on opening "open hardware"](../notes/liz/09-28-2015/ideas-on-opening-open-hardware)

