---
node: New wavelength calibration procedure preview for Spectral Workbench 2.0
author: warren
created_at: 2015-10-02 16:40:46 +0000
timestamp: 1443804046
nid: 12258
cid: 12624
uid: 1
---



[warren](../profile/warren) replying to: [New wavelength calibration procedure preview for Spectral Workbench 2.0](../notes/warren/09-30-2015/new-wavelength-calibration-procedure-preview-for-spectral-workbench-2-0)

----
OK, so we have two different needs:

First, a list of known spectral peaks:

* from some known trusted
* maybe an external source, like NIST?
* we only need wavelengths and intensities
* we should use this long-term as a means of assessing how good a calibration spectrum is

I'm going to use the **14CFLpeaks.txt** file for this.

Second, an example reference spectrum:

* which we can upgrade later
* which should be viewable alongside existing spectra
* which has as good precision/accuracy as we are hoping users will achieve

For this, I agree that we don't need something to the same standard as the first case. I'm curious though -- 

> corrected manually in Photoshop by moving individual emission lines or groups of lines

How did you do this? With the Warp tool, somehow? Or did you just marquee select lines and translate them left and right?

Also, in the jpg of "the calibrated diffraction pattern of the Snowy Sky CFL spectrum" are the peaks at the same positions, i.e. 586px from left, and then 538px from there, as in the image I used? Or should I re-measure that?

One more thought. Although this would only work for a monochrome image (although we could colorize it for clarity, in theory), we could generate an image directly from the graph data, so it's 1:1. We could even do so from some external source, like NIST or something. Would that be of interest?