---
node: New wavelength calibration procedure preview for Spectral Workbench 2.0
author: cfastie
created_at: 2015-10-02 18:33:06 +0000
timestamp: 1443810786
nid: 12258
cid: 12629
uid: 554
---



[cfastie](../profile/cfastie) replying to: [New wavelength calibration procedure preview for Spectral Workbench 2.0](../notes/warren/09-30-2015/new-wavelength-calibration-procedure-preview-for-spectral-workbench-2-0)

----
Correcting the diffraction pattern was done this way:
>>marquee select lines and translate them left and right?

This was done in the Photoshop file that produced the lead image on the original note <http://publiclab.org/notes/cfastie/3-6-2013/polynomial> in which the dashed lines are the 14 emission lines I used for the polynomial calibration. These 14 lines are from the right hand column in the Wikipedia source (<https://commons.wikimedia.org/wiki/File:Fluorescent_lighting_spectrum_peaks_labelled.svg>). There is no guarantee that these known lines are the same ones produced by the particular CFL bulb I used, but the 14 I chose seemed to be pretty unambiguous. 

Most of these 14 lines are not from mercury, so knowing the relative intensity of the emissions from all three elements might be hard. The intensity probably varies among bulbs manufactured with different recipes for  the phosphor coating. Using the intensities from Snowy Sky is probably the way to go. However, the intensity is also a function of the camera's sensitivity at different wavelengths and will therefore vary among cameras. The PowerShot S95 used for Snowy Sky likely differs from the webcams.

I have never been able to parse the NIST database results. I don't know what Hg II is. The Wikipedia source seems to match what I get from a CFL bulb, so I just rely on that. 

I measured the pixels to scale the jpeg to your specifications but there is error involved in deciding exactly where each peak is. You should confirm that it is good enough for your purposes. 

>> we could generate an image directly from the graph data, so it's 1:1

It would much easier to use Spectral Workbench to do the reverse. Submit the jpeg of the corrected diffraction pattern and get a trace that is a perfect match. Calibrate it with a macro using the two endpoint peaks and it becomes the new NIST.


