---
cid: 12647
node: [Ideas on opening "open hardware"](../notes/liz/09-28-2015/ideas-on-opening-open-hardware)
nid: 12250
created_at: 2015-10-05 18:23:17 +0000
timestamp: 1444069397
uid: 1
author: [warren](../profile/warren)
---

I remember when [@donblair](/profile/donblair) mentioned "owners" and I reacted negatively, because I've seen how destructive it can be for one party to "own" a development process and to do so non-transparently and non-participatorily. But I also remember pointing out that these workflows, conventions and responsiblities are well-established in the free software world, and that we might look there for inspiration. [@khufkens](/profile/khufkens) and [@cfastie](/profile/cfastie) note that this proposal for a process draws very heavily on those long-standing examples. 

Just as a point of clarity, though, forking is not considered a "good thing," but rather a mark of collaboration and sometimes transparency failing. See Mako Hill's "To Fork or Not to Fork" -- https://mako.cc/writing/to_fork_or_not_to_fork.html

> Forking has historically been viewed as a bad thing in free software communities: they are seen to stem from people's inability to work together and have ended in reproduction of work.

He additionally cites a great resource, which he also wrote -- the [Free Software Project Management HOWTO](https://mako.cc/projects/howto/) -- in which he mentions:

> The short version of the fork section is, don't do them. Forks force developers to choose one project to work with, cause nasty political divisions, and redundancy of work.

This is also a great all-around resource on technical collaboration, including recommendations on "how to accept patches":

> This HOWTO has already touched on the fact that as the maintainer of a free software project, one of your primary and most important responsibilities will be accepting and rejecting patches submitted to you by other developers.

And great subsections on things like:

* Bring it to the community
* Technical issues are not always good justification
* Common courtesy

It also has a great bibliography -- rich with other writings which are characterized by discussions of leadership, politics, and community -- if anything, more so than discussions on technical topics. 

[warren](../profile/warren) replying to: [Ideas on opening "open hardware"](../notes/liz/09-28-2015/ideas-on-opening-open-hardware)

