---
cid: 12667
node: [Intended Purposes for Different Tools and Techniques](../notes/gretchengehrke/10-07-2015/intended-purposes-for-different-tools-and-techniques)
nid: 12275
created_at: 2015-10-07 13:56:22 +0000
timestamp: 1444226182
uid: 1
author: [warren](../profile/warren)
---

Great post. I have lots of thoughts on this, some of which we've discussed already, but I first wanted to say that in an open source, community science model, I think the idea of a “certification committee” is potentially a very separate conversation. Definitely we need to think about how tools can be evaluated both easily by new users and rigorously by folks who want to closely and independently test claims. But I think the idea that there might be a centralized body as the main mechanism for such evaluations is at odds with our desire to democratize and decentralize expertise and create accessibility in knowledge production. If some contributors choose to set themselves up as "trusted reviewers" and build -- on the basis of transparency, thoroughness and excellent, thorough documentation -- a reputation for themselves, that's great. But I wouldn't necessarily trust a review committee whose only claim to rigor was based on formal accreditation (like having a PhD). 

I guess I'm more interested in scaffolding a set of transparent and legible norms for making claims about a tools fitness to answer a particular question, and for testing such claims and sharing such evaluations. So I'm very excited about this ongoing discussion and how it might bring -- at the very least -- a clear and accountable labeling standard to PL techniques!

[warren](../profile/warren) replying to: [Intended Purposes for Different Tools and Techniques](../notes/gretchengehrke/10-07-2015/intended-purposes-for-different-tools-and-techniques)

