---
cid: 12696
node: [Twin Peaks, Tb or Hg?](../notes/cfastie/10-06-2015/twin-peaks-tb-or-hg)
nid: 12270
created_at: 2015-10-09 14:35:12 +0000
timestamp: 1444401312
uid: 1
author: [warren](../profile/warren)
---

Hmm. I guess there are pros and cons to each approach. 

I agree that the 546 line doesn't result in a great linear calibration -- some end up about 5 nm off. For example, the OTK test calibration I used in July has the red line appearing at 613.14nm instead of 611.60nm. That's ~1.5nm off.

But it's hard to say -- i cloned and recalibrated it with the new interface, and got 436.32nm, 542.7nm, and 609.65nm -- manually placing the lines using the image reference as a guide. That's approximately 0.5nm, 3.3nm, and 2nm off, respectively. That's not too bad, although it may get worse towards the extremes.

The cons of tackling polynomial calibration right now are that:

1. I desperately need to finish [everything else on this list](https://github.com/publiclab/spectral-workbench/milestones/2.0%20launch) AND [this list](https://github.com/publiclab/spectral-workbench/milestones/Graphing%20design%20overhaul) (58 remaining issues) and am already past the planned deadline, 
2. the images won't line up anymore, since we won't warp the image, and  
3. to do it right, we may need to warp the images as the user drags, or re-design the calibration system to use only the graph

I think that if we quantify the error using root-mean-square-error assessment, we should stick to 436/546 linear calibration for the time being. Now that it's possible to do calibrations completely in JavaScript, I should finish the API and documentation so that it's easier for anyone (even if it is just me, later) to add a new calibration module on top of the existing infrastructure. 

What's more, the RMSE assessment plus the visual image-comparison reference in the new interface allow people to make different decisions -- not just using 436/546, but balancing the errors out along the span of the whole dataset visually. How's that sound for now?

[warren](../profile/warren) replying to: [Twin Peaks, Tb or Hg?](../notes/cfastie/10-06-2015/twin-peaks-tb-or-hg)

