---
node: Formaldehyde Measurement: testing Public Lab's kit with DOH's equipment
author: DavidMack
created_at: 2015-10-17 16:08:19 +0000
timestamp: 1445098099
nid: 12278
cid: 12755
uid: 420189
---



[DavidMack](../profile/DavidMack) replying to: [Formaldehyde Measurement: testing Public Lab's kit with DOH's equipment](../notes/gretchengehrke/10-07-2015/formaldehyde-measurement-testing-public-lab-s-kit-with-doh-s-equipment)

----
Thanks [@gretchengehrke](/profile/gretchengehrke) for the update.

In Balmat, J. L. "Accuracy of Formaldehyde Analysis Using the Draeger Tube," the ranges were much higher than your study--in the ppm range.  So their results may not be directly relevant but I posted it to note that colorimetric tubes have their flaws. see http://www.tandfonline.com/doi/abs/10.1080/15298668691390133

In Dannemiller, K. C., et. al, “Formaldehyde concentrations in household air of asthma patients determined using colorimetric detector tubes. Indoor Air” , the samples ranged from 5 to 132 ppb and they validated the method using a formaldehyde generator.  While the method proved to be linear and correlated well with the formaldehyde generator they did not make correlations to other formaldehyde sampling methods or compare their measurements to values collected elsewhere.  Therefore, they didn’t need to rely on the accuracy of the method but only its precision to show that ”exposure is related to poorly controlled asthma.” linky http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23278296

Their lab evaluation using a formaldehyde generator correlated so well with the formaldehyde tubes I wonder if they tweaked the generator at some point to match the tube response and were only using the generator to show linearity and precision, which would be appropriate.  In Balmat, they did a double blind test, where one person setup the generator and others took the samples.  Another theory--and these are just theories--would be that the tube manufacturer uses a formaldehyde generator to set the tube reaction rate and this would explain why it worked so well in the lab.  

However, when you change the reference method, switching from a generator to TO11A as the known standard, you’re usually going to have different results.  It’s not always so dramatic but volatile organic compounds are hard to capture.  

Do you know if there was a spiked lab sample included in this TO11A sampling plan?  Sometimes the lab will put a known amount on a tube in the lab and send that along with the tubes used to collect the sample.  The spiked tube is analyzed and that gives an indication of typical losses in capture.  There is usually some loss in TO11A capture so that could account for some of the differences.  Sometimes the lab just estimates, like 80% capture efficiency (e.g. take the raw results and divide by 0.80).

There are a few studies that compare methods but most are in the OSHA ppm range like Balmat.  Yet it gives an idea what to expect when you change methods, see http://www.tandfonline.com/action/doSearch?AllField=Formaldehyde+method+comparison

If you wanted to keep exploring the method variances then setting up an apparatus with a formaldehyde generator and various test methods sampling from a manifold, might yield a better understanding of what is happening.  Otherwise, I think the tubes still have value but your work seems to confirm that different detection methods will produce varying results.  The value I see in your method is not so much for comparing to known regulatory standards--which there really aren’t that many (any?) in the ppb level anyway--but creating database of known exposures and then people can see for themselves how their situation compares to others.

Also, to go with this wall of text! here’s another tube method, which is the European Pharmacopoeia test method for pure gases used in Pharmaceutical Manufacturing.  The US has similar standards for manufacturing quality assurance to test for gas impurities using detector tubes.  While they don’t typically test for formaldehyde the method does note the maximum relative standard deviations for various compounds, which range from 10 to 30%, see  2.1.6 http://online6.edqm.eu/ep800/NetisUtils/srvrutil_getdoc.aspx/0L3WoC3aqE5moC34mDaKkQ7Hj/20106E.pdf