---
cid: 12917
node: [Harry Collins and his Sociologist Stones](../notes/cfastie/11-17-2015/harry-collins-and-his-sociologist-stones)
nid: 12418
created_at: 2015-11-17 18:35:49 +0000
timestamp: 1447785349
uid: 1
author: [warren](../profile/warren)
---

I haven't read Collins, but I think the subject of how expertise could be reconfigured is very important, and have a few thoughts in response to your post, mostly the first half. 

First, one thing I agree with is that replacing professionalized science is not a good idea -- and I don't think many are arguing for it. We've talked a lot in Public Lab about re-connecting professional scientists with public discourse and with the public itself, not only through "better science communication" (which is most of what I hear about from their side) but through closer alliances and collaborations between scientists and the stakeholders in specific problems that we as a society are trying to solve. This is not so much "replacing" science practice as reforming and opening it up.

The promising part of such closer engagement is that both parties stand to gain. That scientists can be ignorant of the complexity which lifelong residents of a place take for granted has been recognized for decades -- for a close examination of these kinds of issues, take a look at Collins' 2002 chapter written with Trevor Pinch -- [_The Science of the Lambs_](http://ebooks.cambridge.org/chapter.jsf?bid=CBO9780511541353&cid=CBO9780511541353A013) about the dysfunctional relationship between Cumbrian sheep farmers and the scientists trying to study radioactive fallout on their land. 

I believe that in many cases, better dialogue between scientists and the communities they work in would result in better science, but also in science that explores questions more relevant to local needs. It's easy to say that scientists should remain aloof in order to maintain their impartiality, but there's a big difference between impartiality in data collection and analysis, and collaboration in the shaping of research questions. One would hope that science practice is inspired by the desire to better understand the world, and to separate that goal from any means to apply such knowledge towards the solving of our society's greatest problems seems silly. 

Which is to say, science serves many agendas, and it's hard to find a field of scientific inquiry that doesn't play a role in economic, social, or political discourse. Scientists who write and receive grants or work in industry must know that their work -- and above all, the research questions they choose to ask -- are informed by, even if unconsciously, the sources of their funding. I really think it's important here to be clear -- even if the data themselves are impartial and dispassionate, the framing of research questions and the choice to study a particular problem over another is where I see both the strongest role of influence on research. But that early stage in the science process -- what should we study? -- is where I think the public has the most promising role to play, in part because that is where industry is already playing an enormous role. Conversely, if greater distance between scientists and the rest of society means that corporations like Koch Industries or Syngenta can't buy science for political or economic gain, then I'd support it. 

Anyhow, though valuable debates to have, I think these scenarios are the extremes. Public Lab as a community is not going to get very far without close engagement with science practitioners, and the level of engagement I've seen from both sides seems healthy, perhaps because scientists see a lot of promise in the approaches we're taking to both low-cost data collection and public engagement. I'm most interested in imagining a world where higher science literacy -- and capacity -- results in the greater ability of the public to identify problems, and to engage in dialogue and collaboration with professional scientists to further investigate them. If the public were to have cheap, ubiquitous, reliable pollution detection tools, perhaps similarly to community-run weather stations on Wunderground, that could be a valuable first line of detection which would help us to focus and inform the more limited resources of institutional science practice on sites of high concern. Win-win!

[warren](../profile/warren) replying to: [Harry Collins and his Sociologist Stones](../notes/cfastie/11-17-2015/harry-collins-and-his-sociologist-stones)

