---
node: Harry Collins and his Sociologist Stones
author: geraldmc
created_at: 2015-11-17 03:18:58 +0000
timestamp: 1447730338
nid: 12418
cid: 12913
uid: 421225
---



[geraldmc](../profile/geraldmc) replying to: [Harry Collins and his Sociologist Stones](../notes/cfastie/11-17-2015/harry-collins-and-his-sociologist-stones)

----
> It’s important to specify whether the word science refers to the method of science or the current institutional practice of science.

I think the tension between science as method and as a cultural force bears relation to the other distinction you point out, that tectonic plates were drifting around long before we gave them much thought. The idea that our world is changed by how we think about it instead of vice-versa was recognized by [Charles Peirce](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Charles_Sanders_Peirce) long ago as a modern form of nominalism versus realism debate. Peirce was a 'realist' in the sense that he conceived the world to be whatever it is independent of what you or I may think about it. But given as a starting point an agreed upon method of enquiry, it was the *inevitable outcome* of such activity that any group of individuals would eventually arrive at an accurate (and non-relativistic) accounting of things as they are, i.e. at the truth. Perhaps talk of 'truth' in terms of science gets one into trouble these days but I'm no expert.  

Peirce was a realist in an age when only nominalists got academic appointments so not much is heard of him these days. That's a pity since the term 'community of practice' originates in his writings.

If I'm making any coherent point it's only that the method of science, a'la Peirce, is a kind of birthright in us. We have it like we have binocular vision, as part of our common genetic endowment.  The current institutional practice of science - and expertise in general - can be seen as reserving these rights for only a few. Peirce had many other ideas that bear on the discussion of science and expertise such as his [logic of abduction](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Abductive_reasoning) or the art of right guessing.

Wonderful post Chris and we'll miss you! Sending postcards from Cocodrie!