---
cid: 12953
node: [in search of floating spheres...](../notes/lperovich/08-17-2015/in-search-of-floating-spheres)
nid: 12153
created_at: 2015-11-30 18:23:44 +0000
timestamp: 1448907824
uid: 443410
author: [lperovich](../profile/lperovich)
---

Thanks for the suggestions everyone ([@warren](/profile/warren), [@mathew](/profile/mathew), [@liz](/profile/liz), [@DavidMack](/profile/DavidMack))! I've tried a number of things in the past few months and wanted to post an update.

After more time with the Arduino setup, I've shifted to custom electronics based heavily on [@donblair](/profile/donblair)'s Riffle design (thanks!).  Assembly and debugging can be somewhat time consuming, but it's a huge plus to get away from the loose wire fussiness that I always hit with Arduino set-ups.  The smaller compact size and lower cost (probably ~$30 total?) is also nice.

I've started casting the electronics in paraffin wax for sealing (as suggested via Don, though I'm not sure of the original source!).  This can be somewhat time consuming to do/re-do, but it is very reliable.  I found that the various object + silicon/hot glue/epoxy/tape solutions worked okay in calmer water settings for short periods of time, but those solutions were not consistently reliable in real life. They didn't hold up well when placed in flowing water for long periods of time, dragged behind a boat, or placed on the edge of the Charles where they'd hit against a wall from time to time.  The aesthetics also felt a bit unsatisfying. 

In terms of packaging, I tried a number of modified commercial spheres.  My favorites were casting the board in wax using an [ice cube mold](http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B00B7QJJJ4?psc=1&redirect=true&ref_=oh_aui_detailpage_o01_s00) and sandblasting a [Christmas tree ornament](http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B002YGB0M0?psc=1&redirect=true&ref_=oh_aui_detailpage_o02_s00) and casing the electronics in wax in the bottom of the ornament. 

The bigger Christmas ornament spheres worked best for for long exposure photography documentation and for the real time experience too. The smaller wax spheres are pretty fun but they weren't very visible from a distance.  I think the traditional fishing bobs would run into this issue as well, unless they were used at a very high density.

The "how much should it do" question is really interesting.  I like the idea of data as performance and as "traditional" scientific tool concurrently.  I think they complement each other very well and invite various groups of people to the conversation.  That motivated my use of the faster, more digital temperature sensor as the inclusion of an SD card--the coarse data can be seen in real time and fine-tuned data is documented for later use.  Since the bigger spheres work best for documentation and the custom electronics are small it is easy to include all of this functionality in the design.


[lperovich](../profile/lperovich) replying to: [in search of floating spheres...](../notes/lperovich/08-17-2015/in-search-of-floating-spheres)

