---
node: Video tutorial: Creating false-color NDVI with aerial wetlands imagery
author: cfastie
created_at: 2015-12-01 18:06:05 +0000
timestamp: 1448993165
nid: 523
cid: 12975
uid: 554
---



[cfastie](../profile/cfastie) replying to: [Video tutorial: Creating false-color NDVI with aerial wetlands imagery](../notes/warren/10-27-2011/video-tutorial-creating-false-color-ndvi-aerial-wetlands-imagery)

----
Can you operate two Pi cameras from one Pi? If so, you should be able to trigger the shutters simultaneously which is important. The Pi NoIR could have an inexpensive filter like a Wratten 87 which passes only NIR. That would capture a pure NIR image, albeit broad band (750-950?nm). A normal Pi cam could have a red filter like Wratten 25A which passes all red and also NIR. But the camera's IR block filter would block most NIR, so only red would be captured. This might produce a fairly pure red image, albeit broad band (600-700nm). You could also just use the red channel of the unmodified camera, but that will be contaminated with green and blue to some unknown degree. This would be inexpensive (e.g., [filters](http://kaptery.com/products/?f=category&id=20)) and could produce good results. 

To process the photos pairs, Ned Horning's [plugin for Fiji](https://publiclab.org/notes/nedhorning/07-22-2015/introducing-the-calibration-plugin-for-imagej-fiji) is all you need. It will take two directories full of the VIS and NIR photo pairs and make NDVI images from them. It can also automate calibration of the NDVI images if you place targets of known VIS and NIR reflectance in each photo. That will be required if you wanted to make quantitative comparisons among NDVI images made at different times, or make a time lapse video. 

