---
cid: 12990
node: [Video tutorial: Creating false-color NDVI with aerial wetlands imagery](../notes/warren/10-27-2011/video-tutorial-creating-false-color-ndvi-aerial-wetlands-imagery)
nid: 523
created_at: 2015-12-01 21:54:47 +0000
timestamp: 1449006887
uid: 554
author: [cfastie](../profile/cfastie)
---

If you use the Fiji plugin to make NDVI, you will not need the techniques in the video above. The plugin does the comparison of NIR and VIS for each pixel and makes a new image based on NDVI (or other index) values. That is the step which can reveal patterns of plant stress. A few parameters can be varied to fine tune the computation of index values. 

The NDVI image produced by the plugin will not be calibrated unless you follow a separate workflow which starts with including targets in each photo (or some photos). Ned is still working on this workflow. At this point there are not standard targets or procedures. 

Comparing images made at different times could reveal temporal patterns of plant stress, but the individual NDVI images will have the most power to reveal spatial patterns caused by substrate differences. The trick is to get good NDVI images, and that might require carefully selected filters and proper exposure of each photo. 

The [#2007](/n/2007) filter is intended for producing NDVI images with a single Pi NoIR camera. The red channel will capture mostly NIR  (with some visible) and the blue channel will capture mostly blue (with some NIR and other VIS). Using those two channels to compute NDVI sort of works, but I have yet to see Mobius NDVI images that have more information about plant health than a normal color photo. That will require more care.

[cfastie](../profile/cfastie) replying to: [Video tutorial: Creating false-color NDVI with aerial wetlands imagery](../notes/warren/10-27-2011/video-tutorial-creating-false-color-ndvi-aerial-wetlands-imagery)

