---
cid: 13025
node: [Riffle Beta Release: Feature Requests / Review? ](../notes/donblair/11-30-2015/riffle-beta-release-feature-requests-review)
nid: 12464
created_at: 2015-12-04 17:58:48 +0000
timestamp: 1449251928
uid: 43651
author: [donblair](../profile/donblair)
---

### connector

Aj, cool ideas [@warren](/profile/warren) and [@tonyc](/profile/tonyc)!

Also:  I just heard back from MacroFab -- they can do through-hole soldering for a little more (per pin) ... so it'll be interesting to price out having a fully pre-soldered board (with through-hole 2x7 connector) ... that would be neat.  But if the price is too high, we should consider rubber band & heatshrink!

### power / batteries 

And I now recall that shipping lithium batteries in the mail, and abroad, might not be so easy.  So, even more urgent to look into other options and make them accessible.  

In looking at the board design, it really seems like it's confusing / inelegant to have two power JST connectors, one for lithium, one for AA ... 

And now this is reminding me that:

- John Keefe had actually preferred to have a power port that simply accepted a large range of voltages from a large range of battery chemistries -- alakaline, lithium, whatever -- and that it didn't need to have recharging capability.  His thought was: if people wanted to use a rechargeable lithium battery, they can also get a ~ [$5 little board for recharging](http://www.alliedelec.com/adafruit-industries-1304/70460929/?mkwid=sabYU23qn&pcrid=30980760979&gclid=Cj0KEQiAkIWzBRDK1ayo-Yjt38wBEiQAi7NnP890O2EjWqqBHRL6rVeXiuz2flZ1lgdVMpgPKIqy7-AaAtFJ8P8HAQ).

This would simplify the design and allow it to become more general.  For example, if someone wanted to add a solar-recharged lithium battery, it'd be easier to do.  

I'm going to give designing a board without the lithium charger a shot -- that way there's just one JST connector (and I'll leave a two-pin connector open too) and one can plug anything into it ... 

Cheerio!
D


[donblair](../profile/donblair) replying to: [Riffle Beta Release: Feature Requests / Review? ](../notes/donblair/11-30-2015/riffle-beta-release-feature-requests-review)

