---
node: DIY: Wi-Fi Streaming Weatherproof PM2.5 Monitor (Dylos-based)
author: DavidMack
created_at: 2015-12-05 15:51:05 +0000
timestamp: 1449330665
nid: 12481
cid: 13039
uid: 420189
---



[DavidMack](../profile/DavidMack) replying to: [DIY: Wi-Fi Streaming Weatherproof PM2.5 Monitor (Dylos-based)](../notes/kevinvivergy/12-04-2015/diy-wi-fi-streaming-weatherproof-pm2-5-monitor-dylos-based)

----
[@kevinvivergy](/profile/kevinvivergy) great detailed post.

I'm not that familiar with the Dylos--haven't handled one--but looking at some [photos](https://c1.staticflickr.com/3/2802/4276351575_95632d0b35_b.jpg) maybe just cut out holes in the enclosure corresponding to the back of the instrument fan intake and exhaust vent.  Hole saws are great for neatly cutting openings.  Ideally that would expose the intake to the outside air and then the exhaust is plumbed out, yet you can still heat/cool the instrument enclosure without having to directly heat/cool the ambient air you're testing.

I do have concerns that the Dylos might not be made to operate 24/7, on constantly outside, even if kept from the elements--but try it!

For heating, a small silicone flexible heater makes sense.  You can buy smaller versions than the one you have, but the cheaper ones also need thermostats.  [Watlow](https://www.watlow.com/products/heaters/flexible-silicone-heaters.cfm) makes them but their online sales is virtually non-existent.  [McMaster sells similar Flexible Silicone-Rubber Heat Sheets](http://www.mcmaster.com/#heat-sheets/=103vuut) which I'm not sure if these are Watlow or not.  They require a thermostat wired in series, [something like this.](http://www.supplyhouse.com/ICM-Controls-SC045-SC045-Dryout-Thermostat-45F) I haven't used these parts specifically, but have used the Watlow components to heat instruments.  Alternatively, some pet supply stores my have little heaters made for lizards and other sm animal enclosures.

Like most on/off thermostats, the heat cycle is somewhat dependent on the distance between the heater and the thermostat so you might need to play around with the spacing to get it to work right--not over heat but not cycle constantly.

Ideally you'd have the heater PID controlled and record the enclosure temperature, etc. but that's not always practical or needed.  Yet, some instruments are sensitive to temperature fluctuations and the heater cycling on/off can sometimes cause electrical line noise creating an artificial blip on your instrument reading, which the PID controller can help avoid that instant on/off electrical surge.

The low, low tech approach would be to really undersize the heater wattage then just plug it in without any thermostat and hope for the best, which I think is what your light bulb approach is doing.  Inline fuses are always a good addition to a heating circuit to prevent a complete meltdown!

For summer you're probably going to want a cooling fan with filter.  With these outdoor enclosures sometimes you just need to winterize them each fall (unplug fan, cover fan opening, plug in heater) and then summerize them each spring (unplug heater, remove fan cover, plug in fan).

Also, put a placard on it identifying it as a scientific instrument with your contact info just in case someone finds it unattended and calls the bomb squad.