---
cid: 13045
node: [DIY: Wi-Fi Streaming Weatherproof PM2.5 Monitor (Dylos-based)](../notes/kevinvivergy/12-04-2015/diy-wi-fi-streaming-weatherproof-pm2-5-monitor-dylos-based)
nid: 12481
created_at: 2015-12-05 18:46:42 +0000
timestamp: 1449341202
uid: 420189
author: [DavidMack](../profile/DavidMack)
---

I was thinking you could expose the intake to ambient temperature in winter and by heating the enclosure you'd be warming the instrument and air indirectly--but I'm not really sure if that would work or not.  It's a little crude and you would probably still have issues in extreme cold and when there's a lot of fog.  Below freezing the air is usually not wet enough to cause an issue unless you have snow or ice blowing in but you could prevent that with a baffle.

Does the Dyos have a temp requirement? 

Moisture is always a problem with light scattering devices and the cheap way to compensate for condensation is to heat the air to lower the relative humidity (RH).  So ideally you would only heat the intake air when the air exceeds ~95% RH.  But this would require a RH sensor with a heat controller.  You could offset the intake with a pipe (anodized aluminum, non magnetic is best) and then wrap the flexible heater around the pipe, which a metal pipe would conduct the heat better than say PVC. 

In general you want to "handle" the air sample as little as possible.  When you heat the air you risk changing its composition: particle sizes can change; and carbon, particularly semi VOC can burn off. You want to warm the air when necessary but not over cook it or burn it.  Plus anything in the enclosure is a potential PM emitter and source of contamination as you move it from site to site.

Also, not to be a kill joy, but you don't want to paint the enclosure.  It would be another potential source of contamination.



[DavidMack](../profile/DavidMack) replying to: [DIY: Wi-Fi Streaming Weatherproof PM2.5 Monitor (Dylos-based)](../notes/kevinvivergy/12-04-2015/diy-wi-fi-streaming-weatherproof-pm2-5-monitor-dylos-based)

