---
cid: 13067
node: [How can one Infragram photo produce different NDVI results?](../notes/cfastie/12-05-2015/how-can-one-infragram-photo-produce-different-ndvi-results)
nid: 12482
created_at: 2015-12-08 02:44:05 +0000
timestamp: 1449542645
uid: 554
author: [cfastie](../profile/cfastie)
---

A couple of comments ago I included NDVI images from infragram.org and Fiji that are essentially the same. This sort of confirms that infragram.org can be used to produce results that are similar to results from Fiji and are reasonably meaningful. However:

-  There is no way for a typical user to know that the particular NDVI image that I included is probably the most meaningful NDVI image that you could get from that photo at infragram.org. There are lots of options at infragram.org and infragrammar allows infinite tweaking of variables. So I suspect that 90% of users have no idea whether any particular result they get is a good result or whether it could be made more meaningful.
-  The lack of histogram stretching means that the NDVI results from infragram.org will never have the dynamic range that can be derived from single camera infrared photos. So results from infragram.org cannot match those from Fiji for ease of interpretation.

The first point above could be addressed with a good user manual for infragram.org. However:

- There are a lot of options at infragram.org (legacy vs. sandbox, HSV vs. RGB, etc.) so writing a good user manual is somewhat involved.
- It is likely that an important source of unsatisfying results from infragram.org is terrible infragram photos (dull in, dull out). So an infragram.org user manual might not help many users who have not learned how to get the best photos from their infrared cameras and don't understand the severe limitations on photo quality imposed by certain cameras. A separate user manual is needed to describe using various kinds of cameras with different filters in different light environments to achieve different objectives. 


[cfastie](../profile/cfastie) replying to: [How can one Infragram photo produce different NDVI results?](../notes/cfastie/12-05-2015/how-can-one-infragram-photo-produce-different-ndvi-results)

