---
cid: 13087
node: [soda bottle rig for pendulum suspension](../notes/tonyc/12-12-2015/soda-bottle-rig-for-pendulum-suspension)
nid: 12502
created_at: 2015-12-12 01:08:35 +0000
timestamp: 1449882515
uid: 554
author: [cfastie](../profile/cfastie)
---

That looks like a good way to avoid passing the rubber bands out of the bottle top, especially if the shaft could slide easily so the camera can be readily accessed for adjustments. Are the bands knotted around the dowel?

What kind of dowels will you use? I found that wooden dowel legs for camera rigs made from anything other than oak are too prone to breaking. But legs can break and still do their job protecting the camera -- a pendulum cannot break. Fiberglass tubes 20 inches long cost only a dollar (http://www.kitesandfunthings.com/category.aspx?categoryID=39) and are well worth it for a pendulum shaft. A 20 inch shaft with 200 grams on the end can generate of lot of whip on a kite line, and I would not trust wood for this.

It sure would be nice to avoid obscuring the LCD. If you can't readily check the camera settings right before launching, you are increasing the probability of sub-optimal settings. That's a strong argument against the soda bottle rig in general, and any further obscuring seems like asking for trouble.

Some point and shoot cameras (maybe many these days?) have touch screen LCDs. I don't know whether pressure on the LCD from the stopper will be a problem. Scratching the LCD will be a problem unless the stopper or card are always very clean.

It appears that the only thing attaching the camera (and shaft) to the soda bottle is a rubber stopper. If the rig lands hard on the bottle, that stopper can pop out and allow the camera to hit the ground. That might require a different arrangement, or some way to lock the shaft to the bottle.

Chris

[cfastie](../profile/cfastie) replying to: [soda bottle rig for pendulum suspension](../notes/tonyc/12-12-2015/soda-bottle-rig-for-pendulum-suspension)

