---
node: Photo Monitoring Plugin For NDVI using ImageJ
author: nedhorning
created_at: 2015-12-11 15:31:33 +0000
timestamp: 1449847893
nid: 12489
cid: 13083
uid: 133
---



[nedhorning](../profile/nedhorning) replying to: [Photo Monitoring Plugin For NDVI using ImageJ](../notes/mlamadrid/12-08-2015/photo-monitoring-plugin-for-ndvi-using-imagej)

----
Hi Cindy - I'll start with the easy question first. The user guide can be downloaded from the plugin's GitHub repository: https://github.com/nedhorning/PhotoMonitoringPlugin. You can either click the "Download ZIP" button to download the whole repository or click the "downloads" directory then download just the "PhotoMonitoringPluginGuide.pdf" file. 

The graphs that are produced from the calibration plugin plot the calibrated pixel values for reflectance targets in the photo vs. the actual reflectance of those targets and it calculates an R squared value for the fit. If you use only two points the R squared value will be 1 since the two points define a "perfect" line. If more than two points are used then the line through the points will be the "best fit" (from linear regression) and the R squared value will almost certainly be less than 1. By assessing how close the (more than two) points are to the straight line that goes through them you get a sense for how well the calibration is working. This is especially important when using JPEG images since those have a gamma correction applied which I try to remove in the plugin. I tried to discuss the gamma correction in this research note: https://publiclab.org/notes/nedhorning/05-01-2014/improved-diy-nir-camera-calibration. If a RAW format image is being calibrated there is no need for a gamma correction since the RAW pixels values are very nearly linearly correlated to radiance. That concept is discussed in this research note: https://publiclab.org/notes/nedhorning/06-23-2014/calibrating-raw-images-a-step-toward-jpeg-calibration.

If this isn't clear or if I didn't answer your question please let me know and I'll try again.