---
cid: 13108
node: [chosing a mobius camera to offer through kits store](../notes/tonyc/12-14-2015/chosing-a-mobius-camera-to-offer-through-kits-store)
nid: 12517
created_at: 2015-12-15 00:18:26 +0000
timestamp: 1450138706
uid: 554
author: [cfastie](../profile/cfastie)
---

A custom white balance setting is easy to do using the msetup program. Just try different numbers for R, G, and B until you get what you like. First you should try the white balance presets (sunny, cloudy, etc) to see if they work well enough. They probably do for average situations.

The blue tinge in your photos could be an artifact of those particular photos. Was the camera set for auto white balance or a preset? For mapping (or any stitching), using a standard preset or custom white balance is best so auto white balance does not make each photo different.

Pat made a kite flight with an 8 mm lens and got good continuous coverage. All else being equal, this would be a very high resolution map. However, the longer the focal length, the more the photo is prone to motion blur. So using an 8 mm (50 mm equiv) lens for kite photos is an advanced exercise but can produce high resolution results.

The other characteristic of the lenses you might examine is distortion. Take photos of a grid and see how much the photo is warped. This is easy to do with a checkerboard, but more useful if the grid is >100 feet away. That allows you to also examine how soft the focus is at the image edges when the subject is at "infinity." This is a better analog of mapping photos. The trick is to find a distant grid-like subject that can fill the frame edge to edge. To examine focus, a high shutter speed (or tripod) is required.

[cfastie](../profile/cfastie) replying to: [chosing a mobius camera to offer through kits store](../notes/tonyc/12-14-2015/chosing-a-mobius-camera-to-offer-through-kits-store)

