---
cid: 13165
node: [Riffle CT (Conductivity & Temp) Beta Design: Electronics, Enclosure, Probes, Data Collection](../notes/donblair/12-13-2015/riffle-ct-conductivity-temp-beta-design-enclosure-probes-data-collection)
nid: 12511
created_at: 2015-12-18 18:12:31 +0000
timestamp: 1450462351
uid: 43651
author: [donblair](../profile/donblair)
---

[@mathew](/profile/mathew) -- great stuff!  I really like the stud ring + nut replacement for the alligator clips. More secure, and likely available at a typical hardware store, too, yes? Perfect.

Re: temperature probe inside / outside the enclosure -- not sure how this'll change the response time of the temperature measurement / be affected by the electronics.  If keeping the probe inside the bottle avoids the use of adhesives, then it seems like it's worth seeing whether we can get away with it for our measurements. 

One idea might be: to attach the temperature probe inside the enclosure to a third metal screw, with the idea that the metal would better conduct heat, and otherwise insulate (with tape?) the rest of the probe.  

One easy experiment to do soon is to test various options in a temperature-controlled heat bath, and look at the response time differences.  [@lperovich](/profile/lperovich) has done some great work towards this sort of analysis ... 

- Re: language -- yes, good point -- and sounds great to specify the enclosure by opening size.  Basically, we've designed the datalogger to fit inside one of the most ubiquitous, cheapest water-tight enclosure we could find -- 28mm cap water bottles --  which also happens to be the smallest water bottle 'mouth' out there.  Good stuff

- The "2Li + H2O = Li2O + H2 + trouble" experiment also sounds like fun! :)

[@warren](/profile/warren) -- wow, this looks really great.  Is there a link to the part, perchance?  Would love to order some and play ... if they're secure enough, it would mean that e.g. the sensor board wouldn't require through-hole soldering, or a screwdriver.  And great re: desktop lab instrumentation, in any case ...

[donblair](../profile/donblair) replying to: [Riffle CT (Conductivity & Temp) Beta Design: Electronics, Enclosure, Probes, Data Collection](../notes/donblair/12-13-2015/riffle-ct-conductivity-temp-beta-design-enclosure-probes-data-collection)

