---
node: chosing a mobius camera to offer through kits store
author: tonyc
created_at: 2015-12-22 00:37:46 +0000
timestamp: 1450744666
nid: 12517
cid: 13187
uid: 447491
---



[tonyc](../profile/tonyc) replying to: [chosing a mobius camera to offer through kits store](../notes/tonyc/12-14-2015/chosing-a-mobius-camera-to-offer-through-kits-store)

----
Couple things.
I realized the mobius with the new lenses can be focused manually, just by screwing the lens further in or out. This was hit and miss, until I discovered you can view through the lens on these by running as a webcam. On my linux machine, this just meant removing the SD card, plugging it into machine via USB, then powering it on. I viewed in "Cheese" software, and dialled the focus in.

Also discovered you can get incredibly close with this, by focussing manually. Right down to one inch from object.
This makes very shallow depth of filed images, but that's great for product shots. This could also be useful in doing detailed tutorials with small parts.

I messed around with color balance on the new lenses, and found that auto tends to override the blue nature of these iagme,s but also by manually tweaking the RGB in the syscfg.txt file I could get a decent, consistent color to the images. 

once I settle on a method, I can document in detail. But basically I took image of white paper, then went into to Gimp and used color picker tool (the eye dropper) to select the white paper, and then looked at the RGB values of this color. I then altered the RGB numbers in config file to compensate for the % difference of these values. For example, the Red channel was (say) 180. This is a value out of 0-255 scale. This is 41% change from 180-255. I went to the config file. There the number is measured from scale of 100-999. I just napkin-mathed this out, starting with the RGB values for "cloudy" setting, and increased RGB by the % Gimp told me.

I am 100% sure this will make NO SENSE to ANYONE but I will use these notes to try to recreate and post another note on the topic, once I'm sure it acutally is repeatable.

At this point, I am happy with the 6 and 8mm lenses as potential mapping options. I have successfully converted an infragram camear to a mapping camera by swapping out the kit lens with one of the new 6mm ones. And it's not so very hard to do.

I'd be fine offering the stock camera + 6 and 8mm lenses through the store, as well as each as standalone items. On the fence about just having them ship to us with 6mm installed, adn whether to have all of these options, or just pick best configuration and sell that one only. I'm leaning toward the stock + lenses and instructions mode, as it's cheapest and not too difficult to pull off.