---
cid: 13229
node: [On being doomed to repeat historical lithographs](../notes/cfastie/11-05-2015/on-being-doomed-to-repeat-historical-lithographs)
nid: 12370
created_at: 2016-01-03 04:05:39 +0000
timestamp: 1451793939
uid: 554
author: [cfastie](../profile/cfastie)
---

Lots of people have used MapKnitter to place images that are not aerial photos they have taken. Some of these are older aerial photos which must be distorted to align with the ortho base image. The free distort tools in MapKnitter are good for this. I generally use PhotoShop to do that kind of thing so I have more control over blending photos together, but then I sacrifice georeferencing, 

Google earth allows image overlays which can be scaled and rotated and stretched over the topography (main menu, Add/Image Overlay), but the images cannot be otherwise warped to compensate for an oblique angle of the photo. This could be done first and then overlain in Google Earth. That is inconvenient, but it then leverages Google Earth's powerful display and annotation capabilities.

Another Google Earth feature allows oblique photos to be viewed from the perspective of the camera that took them (main menu, Add/Photo). A dialog box opens so you can select a photo from your hard drive and then align it in 3D space to have it match the Google Earth landscape behind it. These alignment tools take some practice (okay, maybe a whole lot of practice). It helps if your location in Google Earth is close to the original camera location before you start the process, so it takes a few tries to dial it in. The photo will not align very well until you find the exact spot in the sky where the camera was and also adjust the field of view, tilt, and roll to match the camera.

Here is a kmz file of one oblique aerial photo of Middlebury that was added to Google Earth with Add/Photo. If you download this and click on it (and Google Earth is installed), Google Earth will show you the photo from the vantage point of the camera that took the photo. It does not match very well because I didn't spend enough time to make it match very well.

<a href="//i.publiclab.org/system/images/photos/000/013/494/original/MiddFalls.kmz"><i class="icon icon-file"></i> MiddFalls.kmz</a>

I think this should work.

Chris



[cfastie](../profile/cfastie) replying to: [On being doomed to repeat historical lithographs](../notes/cfastie/11-05-2015/on-being-doomed-to-repeat-historical-lithographs)

