---
cid: 13246
node: [An Arduino Based UnderWater Sensor Platform](../notes/EdMallon/02-11-2014/an-arduino-based-underwater-sensor-platform)
nid: 10026
created_at: 2016-01-05 06:28:30 +0000
timestamp: 1451975310
uid: 420750
author: [EdMallon](../profile/EdMallon)
---

Not sure about that Arduino clone, as I don't know about the chips it's using. But for less than 4 bucks just try it and see. Just don't expect them to be as robust as the real Arduinos.
[The DS3231 RTC boards should not cost you much more than a buck](http://www.ebay.com/itm/251401815796?_trksid=p2057872.m2749.l2649&ssPageName=STRK%3AMEBIDX%3AIT)
and neither should the SD card holders, so hunt for the cheap ones with free shipping. Those other parts look ok, just don't forget your limit resistor. I usually use 22 or 24 AWG solid core jumper wire which you can find anywhere.

WRT the sensors, just read the specs. Adafruit boards are usually designed with level shifters so that they can run with both 5V unos, and the smaller 3.3v arduinos but you have to read the specs for each sensor. If you can't find the voltage tolerance information in the listing don't buy the sensor because it probably won't work. Also, I buy Adafruit sensors directly from Adafruits online store, same with Sparkfun, etc.  I noodle around with dodgy sensors from china all the time because they are cheap enough to experiment with, but it really irritates me when those vendors copy 'real' company logos and then try to pass the stuff off on eBay as genuine.  

As I outlined in the post, you need at least 6-7 AA batteries to power an UNO, and I expect that would only give you between 2-4 days of operation because the UART chip is always going to use power even if the main processor is sleeping (and with a clone you have no idea how much that might be...)  The NANO also uses 5v logic, and has the same UART issue, so it will likely have a similar operating life, but you would have to provide your own voltage regulation (ie: you can't run it from the raw batteries)

 If you want more lifespan, first build the UNO unit for experimenting and working out the code needed to drive your sensors, and then look at the  links I posted earlier for the pro-mini based data logger. That unit runs for at least 3 months on 3xAA's, but you need to solder those parts together, so there would be a significant learning curve there. But I suggest you get your first few loggers working properly on the USB tether first, as that is a real achievement, before you jump into stand alone builds.




[EdMallon](../profile/EdMallon) replying to: [An Arduino Based UnderWater Sensor Platform](../notes/EdMallon/02-11-2014/an-arduino-based-underwater-sensor-platform)

