---
node: An Arduino Based UnderWater Sensor Platform
author: donblair
created_at: 2016-01-05 18:23:39 +0000
timestamp: 1452018219
nid: 10026
cid: 13253
uid: 43651
---



[donblair](../profile/donblair) replying to: [An Arduino Based UnderWater Sensor Platform](../notes/EdMallon/02-11-2014/an-arduino-based-underwater-sensor-platform)

----
Oh gosh -- Chris, thanks for tagging me in this thread -- I had no idea that this existed!  Wow, Ed -- what amazing work you've been doing!!  It's going to take me a little while to catch up with everything, but just wanted to say quickly:  if you've seen the Riffle project, we've been putting together some of the components you've been using on a single circuit board. The current design might not be so useful for your (fantastic!) enclosure design, as we've made it long and thin in order to fit in a water bottle.  But it's simple enough to rearrange the parts into e.g. a disk pattern.  I don't know that a single circuit board could be made as cheaply as the version you've assembled from separate boards, but I'm guessing it could be comparable, and might save a lot of work / be less finicky.  Let me know if it'd be of interest to design such a board together -- I've fumbled my way through Eagle CAD enough times that I think it wouldn't be so hard.  It's now pretty easy to get these boards made and assembled via services like macrofab.com.  

I also like the idea that Chris has of making a relevant shield for the Nano! 

Ed, it'd be great to pick your brain about power issues.  [@cfastie](/profile/cfastie) -- yes, it looks like the Dead Bug shield bypasses the USB-Serial chip in order to conserve power.  The Pro Mini has no such chip (though it has an onboard always-on LED -- I haven't looked, but I'm guessing that Ed removes it).  The current version of the Riffle has a circuit that only powers the USB-Serial chip when plugged into USB power; when on a battery, the USB-Serial chip isn't powered.  I still haven't looked into the power consumption stats of the Riffle in nearly the sort of detail that Ed has for his setup, but that's a necessary next step.  

Looking forward to connecting!
- Don
