---
cid: 13259
node: [An Arduino Based UnderWater Sensor Platform](../notes/EdMallon/02-11-2014/an-arduino-based-underwater-sensor-platform)
nid: 10026
created_at: 2016-01-05 19:34:01 +0000
timestamp: 1452022441
uid: 420750
author: [EdMallon](../profile/EdMallon)
---

@ cfastie: To be honest I probably would have started with Geir Andersen's shield to if I had known about it back at the beginning of my project. And it's also worth digging through to find his stuff at LetsMakeRobots (eg: http://letsmakerobots.com/node/37728 ) as he has been playing the data logger game for quite a while now.

[@donblair](/profile/donblair):  So far I have been avoiding the temptation to move to a custom PCB because what I really want is the flexiblity to customize loggers to suit each experiment and sensor configuration. For example I have been playing with Moteinos to road test the 1284p, side by side with a variety of mini-form factor arduinos like the one from Rocket Scream. The translation of my build plan from one board/mcu combination to the next is pretty trivial, provided you are willing to pay for it with 4-5 hours soldering jumpers.  Compared to the time I spend calibrating & deploying them, that build time is still acceptable for me. But I realize that is not the case for everyone.

WRT power issues, read through the blog before you start firing off questions. Then you will see that I am just bringing together stuff that's already out there from Nick Gammon, Jeelabs, Rob Tillaart, etc. and they are much better primary sources than I am. My big contribution is simply building alot of loggers and putting them in the real world to see what happens to them. So I guess I am becoming an expert on how things stop working   :-)

[EdMallon](../profile/EdMallon) replying to: [An Arduino Based UnderWater Sensor Platform](../notes/EdMallon/02-11-2014/an-arduino-based-underwater-sensor-platform)

