---
cid: 13273
node: [PLab 3 Gain Correction](../notes/stoft/03-06-2015/plab-3-gain-correction)
nid: 11658
created_at: 2016-01-05 21:22:58 +0000
timestamp: 1452028978
uid: 54025
author: [stoft](../profile/stoft)
---

I used the 35W Solux 4700K.
eg: http://www.amazon.com/35003-Daylight-Halogen-Degree-Kelvin/dp/B0002GS4GE/ref=sr_1_2?s=hi&ie=UTF8&qid=1452026828&sr=1-2&keywords=solux+mr16  
These halogen lamps get really hot and there is no need for high power.

I could not find data on the spectral variance with source voltage, but since filament bulb intensity is a function of supply voltage, I believe using 12V is preferable. Solux specifies that their specs are based on a 3-5 min "warm-up" period for the bulb to obtain full stability. Since, at best, the calibration accuracy will be no better than about 10%, I see using a stable supply as a necessary part of a calibration.

I bought an Anchorn [#AET](/tag/AET) 60W Class 2 12V supply for Halogen lamps -- but probably most qualified halogen 12V supplies would work.

Yes, because of the ~10% cal-error limit for the process (based on using a Solux lamp) I have suspected that individual calibration of webcams would likely prove unnecessary. I still suspect the webcam sensitivity variation between devices will prove to be much less than 10%. The test could be simple; buy one 12V 35V Solux + power supply and just measure 10 webcams using the exact same idealized setup. Then compare the resulting curve variation (after removing any intensity offset variations due to setup for each). The resulting curve error range should likely be very small. If so, just build-in the correction to SWB and make it transparent. Then, user's results could be specified with a theoretical %error over the 400-650 cal range.

[stoft](../profile/stoft) replying to: [PLab 3 Gain Correction](../notes/stoft/03-06-2015/plab-3-gain-correction)

