---
node: A proposal for a way to remediate indoor silica dust
author: warren
created_at: 2016-01-05 21:20:01 +0000
timestamp: 1452028801
nid: 12539
cid: 13272
uid: 1
---



[warren](../profile/warren) replying to: [A proposal for a way to remediate indoor silica dust](../notes/marlokeno/12-23-2015/a-proposal-for-a-way-to-remediate-indoor-silica-dust)

----
Very neat idea -- I guess I agree with Chris that it may not matter if diatoms metabolize the silica, if the silica is already transfered from the bubbled air into the water -- it could just accumulate at the bottom of the water vessel. I think it could be hard to tell in the pond you mention whether diatoms are involved or not -- would it look different if they were or were not involved in capturing silica? I guess I don't know much about it. 

I wonder if you can run the whole thing as an experiment in a sealed chamber like a bucket or sealed fish tank, and monitor the silica dust levels (sorry, the Dylos can detect the relevant silica? I really don't know much about it) -- so you'd, in Test A:

* turn on the sensor, measure a baseline
* introduce silica dust into the chamber, see a spike on the sensor readout
* start the bubbler, watch if the sensor readout drops and how fast

Then you'd repeat the whole thing with no bubbler, ideally in the same conditions, as Test B (temperature, humidity, airflow). And back and forth a few times so you are sure that A and B are different no matter which you run first. 

I'd leave the bubbler in the chamber for both tests to be sure it's the actual bubbles that make the difference. Maybe even leave the pump going for both, where the difference would be only that it's not bubbling, and the vibration and airflow of the pump itself isn't part of it (esp. since the pump has a crude filter in it).