---
node: Remote temperature sensing
author: cfastie
created_at: 2012-09-16 01:38:56 +0000
timestamp: 1347759536
nid: 3822
cid: 1330
uid: 554
---



[cfastie](../profile/cfastie) replying to: [Remote temperature sensing](../notes/cfastie/9-14-2012/remote-temperature-sensing)

----
Having a choice of full-fledged computers for $30 is kind of astounding. LEAFFEST will be a really good opportunity for me to learn which will be most useful for various projects. That is really cool that Craig might be able to beam down webcam stills.  That could be really useful for framing shots. Or point the webcam at the Powershot so you can tell that it is still operating.

As far as a kite lifting them, if there is enough wind, there is always room for PI!  A Canon Powershot weighs 125 to 250 grams, and adding another 100 to 200 grams should be doable with sufficient wind.

The end of the temperature rise in the compost pile indicates that the aerobic bacteria have used up all the oxygen and are dying by the millions. They are no longer releasing metabolic heat, so the pile will slowly cool off.  This will take a while because the hot center of the pile is insulated by the outer layers which have not been rotting or heating up.  Turning the pile now will remix everything and incorporate oxygen and the pile will once again be good substrate for an exponentially growing culture of aerobic bacteria.  If it is not turned, anaerobic bacteria will continue to decompose the material, but they work and reproduce much more slowly and give off little heat. After it is turned, the pile will be smaller (the pile has already shrunk in volume by 25%), and the center will include both fresh and rotted material so will not heat up as much as the first round unless a lot of new, rich material is added.   I might turn it in the next couple of days. 