---
cid: 13307
node: [Testing MIDOPT filters](../notes/cfastie/12-03-2015/testing-midopt-filters)
nid: 12473
created_at: 2016-01-11 15:20:00 +0000
timestamp: 1452525600
uid: 554
author: [cfastie](../profile/cfastie)
---

I hadn't considered aperture as a reason for the vignetting. I assume it is related to the angle at which the light enters the filter. Dichroic filters are intended to work only for light impacting the filter at an angle close to perpendicular to the filter surface. The camera is capturing light that has passed through the filter at much lower angles, and that light is not "filtered" the same as more perpendicular rays. This effect seems to be much stronger for near infrared light than for visible light, and stronger for 808 nm NIR than for 850 nm NIR. 

A solution might be to hold the filter closer to the front of the lens, or install it inside the camera in front of the sensor. It might also be helpful to zoom the lens in, or just use the center part of each photo.

The mystery of why the blue channel showed the vignetting more strongly than the green channel remains. Maybe the green channel captures a different range of NIR light than the blue channel. The range of NIR passed by the filter is very narrow, but that is only for light passing through the filter perpendicularly. A wider range of NIR probably passes through the filter at lower angles, and the Bayer filters for the blue and green channels might block different parts of that range.



[cfastie](../profile/cfastie) replying to: [Testing MIDOPT filters](../notes/cfastie/12-03-2015/testing-midopt-filters)

