---
cid: 13322
node: [PLab 3 Gain Correction](../notes/stoft/03-06-2015/plab-3-gain-correction)
nid: 11658
created_at: 2016-01-12 23:21:02 +0000
timestamp: 1452640862
uid: 54025
author: [stoft](../profile/stoft)
---

Jeff, pretty close. I'll try again, in case I'm not reading your code accurately....

1 - Solux4700K_spec([nm(300:800),val(300:800)]) = the Mfg's specified spectral data for 300-800nm in 1nm increments

2 - Solux4700K_meas([nm(300:800),val(300:800)]) = the PLab V3 measured spectral data for 300-800nm in 1nm increments where the nm was obtained via a 2-point CFL cal using 435.833nm (blue) and 546.074nm (2nd Green peak)

3 - 530nm is arbitrarilly (selected based on the GRN response curve "flat region" when observing the Solux measurement) set as the "gain-correction=1.0 reference point.

4 - Yes, I'm assuming all raw data has been averaged and processed so as to be working in 300-800nm range with integer 1nm increments

5 - Given the Spec and Meas data sets, we then scale the Spec'd data to make the 530nm data points match such that the gain correction at 530nm will be ~1.0. I believe this is a useful step because it keep the final GCal correction curve data in a sensible value range so that applying the correction to new data will not result in huge mutiplicative shits in spectral intensity values.

6 - Calculate the "raw" gain correction curve where: GCal = SoluxSpec / SoluxMeasured. I believe this is what your code calculates.

7 - However, even at 400nm and 650nm (the two ends of the corrected range which are roughly the limits of using the correction w/o suffering too much error because the webcam's sensitivity is near zip. So, I apply a cosine-based rounding algorithm to both ends of the GCal(300:800) data from step 6. For example, the 'raw' GCal data can easily produce a magnification of ~2.5 or above at just 650nm due to low webcam sensitivity -- which would produce rather high error values so not be very honest.

Make sense?

[stoft](../profile/stoft) replying to: [PLab 3 Gain Correction](../notes/stoft/03-06-2015/plab-3-gain-correction)

