---
cid: 13348
node: [OTK Proto3](../notes/stoft/01-19-2016/otk-proto3)
nid: 12593
created_at: 2016-01-19 20:39:50 +0000
timestamp: 1453235990
uid: 54025
author: [stoft](../profile/stoft)
---

Jeff, thanks.

1 - Yes, you are right, there is a "glow" from EVO. However, that peak is small and out at 650nm past where it has little effect. I added another plot to show this affect up above in the 'Fluorescence' subsection.

2,3 - Sounds plausible. However, I don't see the value in dilution for opacity uniformity.

4 - Yes, averaging multiple plots of the same sample would likely reduce the noise. However, measurement uncertainty would remain as all data samples might be, by chance, not an even distribution -- but yes, averaging is generally helpful.

A - Yes, subjective visual analysis. Gain-correction: It depends on what is being measured. If you want only to look for a 20% level change at 550nm, then maybe it doesn't matter. However, when attempting to build a measurement device like this, and have the measurements mean something, it is necessary to identify what the measurements mean -- i.e. you need to develop Specifications. It is the only way to, ultimately, compare measurements made using separate instruments.

B - Yes, I'm thinking about ways to get quantitative results from qualitative factors so "area-based" or other such measures would be interesting to test. I figure I have enough stable data to try a few. What is not clear, even as a guess, is if there will be any correlation at all.

C - I believe LEDs generally have a much much wider spectral bandwidth (than lasers) -- which I think was also evident in your plots in the RN you linked. This is a major problem as 1) it could significantly affect the fluorescence spectra, complicating that spectra by mixing multiple fluorescence signatures instead of having just one, and 2) the beam angle of LED is very broad (compared to a laser) so there would be significant diffraction products which would intensify the ~400nm signal and obscure the fluorescence signature and the beam spread is effectively much lower power density within the sample thus significantly decreasing the fluoresce-signal:source-signal ratio. If a compromise could be found (integral lens, etc) the LED would need to be driven from a well regulated source with low noise.


[stoft](../profile/stoft) replying to: [OTK Proto3](../notes/stoft/01-19-2016/otk-proto3)

