---
cid: 13361
node: [OTK Proto3](../notes/stoft/01-19-2016/otk-proto3)
nid: 12593
created_at: 2016-01-21 21:29:55 +0000
timestamp: 1453411795
uid: 54025
author: [stoft](../profile/stoft)
---

Gretchen, thanks for the insight.

I'd read that the generally broad fluorescence spectrum is, as would be expected, a combination of many spectral responses (oils contain so many separate molecules) so what you suggest make sense. Unfortunately, also as you suggest, this makes finding identifying features (which might correlate oil type with spectral "shape") much more difficult because finding independent factors to extract are so buried in the larger spectra and spectral noise. From other plots I've seen on the web (which cover a much more broad spectrum than the webcam can see) the 400-650nm span only contains very broad features so we're looking for very low SNR indicators. I think the primary benefit of the Solux correction is in lowering spectral errors when analyzing "curve shapes".

I've also read evidence that, even with a single oil type, the shift in peak center nm does vary with concentration (probably due to the factors you referenced); which also supports my observations. I believe this is primarily why equalizing areas before comparison, doesn't help. So, I'm waiting on more cuvettes from PLab to perform some comparisons between oil types where the dilution has been adjusted to make the fluorescence peak values equal as means of chemical normalizing out some of these variables. It looks like any type-related signal within these spectra is relatively weak -- thus some form of isolation technique, that does not add to the noise, is required. What I don't know yet is if just having different concentrations, even if the fluorescence "intensity" is the same, will still retain to large an error term.

[stoft](../profile/stoft) replying to: [OTK Proto3](../notes/stoft/01-19-2016/otk-proto3)

