---
cid: 13397
node: [KAP rig impasse](../notes/cfastie/01-22-2016/kap-rig-impasse)
nid: 12601
created_at: 2016-01-25 19:04:38 +0000
timestamp: 1453748678
uid: 554
author: [cfastie](../profile/cfastie)
---

Thanks Tony,

I like the idea of a universal ball head instead of a hinge. That would make it easier to switch between nadir and oblique when using no camera protection or when using KAPtery bumpers. Using a plastic jug for protection makes it harder to point the camera where you want because the jug has to pivot with the camera. Other than the second design with alternate points for attaching the suspension, I still don't have an elegant solution for pointing the camera when using a plastic jug. You need to allow the jug to pivot both ways, which is messy.

An advantage of the hinge is that the camera can be mounted solidly so the camera cannot rotate around the tripod screw. The hinge allows mounting the camera with its back edge snug against a ridge, just like KAPtery camera trays. A ball mount requires the tripod screw to stay tight even if the camera torques it.

That's a good point about the extra bend in the aluminum frame. I added that to accommodate the KAPtery leg brackets. The angle allows the PET bumpers to surround the camera better.

I am leaning towards the first design, the one which requires 3D printed parts for complete functionality. It will work without 3D printed parts unless you need landscape oblique mode. So that single design covers most needs and covers all needs with some small 3D printed parts (or other modifications).

I hope to post a note soon with a wild addition to the rig that compensates for the lack of landscape oblique mode (absent the printed hinge). 

I learned that my local True Value hardware store carries 1/16"  aluminum bars in 1 1/2" width. They are about the same price as McMaster Carr but you save on shipping. I am not sure which alloy it is, but it looks like it would work well. So it's easy for people to pick up one bar (4' long for <$8.00) and experiment. My goal is to make the rig with a length of aluminum under one foot so a 3' or 4' bar can be divided with no waste. That is turning out to be a challenge.

Chris

[cfastie](../profile/cfastie) replying to: [KAP rig impasse](../notes/cfastie/01-22-2016/kap-rig-impasse)

