---
cid: 13394
node: [KAP rig impasse](../notes/cfastie/01-22-2016/kap-rig-impasse)
nid: 12601
created_at: 2016-01-25 17:52:47 +0000
timestamp: 1453744367
uid: 447491
author: [tonyc](../profile/tonyc)
---

These are both great, and an excellent video summary of the questions you are facing here.

My mind goes into a place of splitting the designs into two categories: one making the best possible rig assuming a person has access to a 3d printer, and one assuming no 3d printed parts whatsoever.

The addition of a simple [mini-ball head](http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B00C3DY73S) to the rig would allow for the infinite oblique settings while only adding a couple bucks to the total cost. These are readily avail. I can even add them to the PL store since we stock the part for the pole kit. I think giving this option as well the the 3d-printed hinge is a flexible solution.

I especially liked the way you switch between oblique and mapping modes by changing the mount point of the dowel. 

Also, I thought the first design had a great addition from the initial sketch: by putting the bend in the aluminum jutting back, it protects the camera from landing directly on the tripod screw, which would transfer force directly to the camera. The way you built it protects against such a landing by xfering force tot he aluminum and the base of the jug.

This is great work Chris. I think both are worth persuing, so a "fork" between the 3d/no-3d might be a good line to draw? That's my two bits.

I just love the look you give at the end, too. 



[tonyc](../profile/tonyc) replying to: [KAP rig impasse](../notes/cfastie/01-22-2016/kap-rig-impasse)

