---
cid: 13390
node: [Riffle 0.1.1 Debugging](../notes/donblair/01-21-2016/riffle-0-1-1-debugging)
nid: 12600
created_at: 2016-01-24 19:55:38 +0000
timestamp: 1453665338
uid: 43651
author: [donblair](../profile/donblair)
---

Further elaboration on this circuit solution:

The idea (nicely described in the blog post) is to use a P-channel Mosfet arranged so that when USB power is applied, this will effectively disconnect the battery from the LDO (while continuing to charge the battery).  This also has the effect, apparently, of improving the charging dynamics for the battery.  Additionally there's a diode placed on the USB line to avoid the battery charge flowing back to the USB power source. 

The P-Mosfet I'm currently using is the FDN340p; the diode is a MBR120VLSFT3G.  There are calculations in the blog post to make sure that the gate level on the mosfet is reasonable by dialing in a particular value of a resistor in the circuit (in the blog post, R2; in my schematic, R11).  The relevant parameters are about the same for the current leakage of the diode, so the same resistance of 100K for R11 (100K was used for R2) seems reasonable.

The estimated leakage current of battery through the diode (question -- does this happen when USB is disconnected?) is 150 uA.  This might be something like 10X the current drawn by the 328p when it's asleep, I think.

However:  I further modified the switch circuitry so that it decides between the USB/Lithium circuitry, and a single "VGEN1" power line, which is alternatively supplied by plugging in a power source to a JST connector, or two pins broken out directly on the board.  For now, I'm opting to not place diodes on either of the two power sources going into the VGEN1.  The idea is that if someone wants to really maximize their battery life, they can plug their battery (alkaline or lithium) into one of the VGEN1 connectors.  We'll have to hope that they avoid plugging a battery into both VGEN1 lines; but I'm thinking that the risk of this isn't great.  

So, I'm liking this circuit:  it maximizes charging dynamics; the lithium battery performs reasonably well (modulo battery leakage through a diode) when plugged into the same circuit that can charge it; but if you *really* want to maximize battery life with the same lithium battery, you can plug it into VEGEN1 on the board, which has no associated diode.  And of course, one can use whatever power source (between 6V and 3.5V, determined by the LDO parameters) one likes on VGEN1.





[donblair](../profile/donblair) replying to: [Riffle 0.1.1 Debugging](../notes/donblair/01-21-2016/riffle-0-1-1-debugging)

