---
cid: 13421
node: [The JerkPan](../notes/cfastie/01-27-2016/the-jerkpan)
nid: 12624
created_at: 2016-01-27 20:07:33 +0000
timestamp: 1453925253
uid: 554
author: [cfastie](../profile/cfastie)
---

Thanks, Tony. I suspect there is going to be great variability in the rotation depending on wind, kite, camera mass, suspension (Picavet vs pendulum), line yanking, etc. Not to mention the configuration of the particular JerkPan escapement used. Getting good data on how it all works might be as simple as recording video during a flight. Then I could just yell when I jerk the line to record kite handler input. I might want to try that only when no one else is around.

It might seem that 3D printing is a poor way to manufacture an escapement for mass sales, but maybe it's not a bad idea. A JerkPan is very easy to print and small enough to produce fairly quickly. It seems a little strange to ignore Public Lab's ten 3D printers in favor of jury rigged office supplies. For example, the camera rigs you describe in your recent research notes are ingenious and a real contribution to those doing DIY mapping. Your work prototyping these rigs helps anyone who wants to make their own. But I wonder whether a handful of the parts to make those rigs is a viable product for the Public Lab Store. Including a precisely designed and manufactured component that actually works and that most people cannot make themselves seems like a good way to add value to a product. 

I think it might be possible to sell the new aluminum rig with 3D printed leg brackets, hinged platform, and JerkPan for not much more than you would sell a kit of dowels, rubber bands, cable ties, and thumbtacks. This could be a way to offer greater value to customers.

Manufacturing on a home 3D printer does not scale very well past a few hundred pieces a year. But at greater numbers maybe the manufacture can be outsourced. Anyway, worrying about selling *too many* kite photography rigs is something I don't bother to do anymore. 

Chris


[cfastie](../profile/cfastie) replying to: [The JerkPan](../notes/cfastie/01-27-2016/the-jerkpan)

