---
cid: 13422
node: [The JerkPan](../notes/cfastie/01-27-2016/the-jerkpan)
nid: 12624
created_at: 2016-01-27 22:43:27 +0000
timestamp: 1453934607
uid: 447491
author: [tonyc](../profile/tonyc)
---

Good points. the main thrust of developing extreme low cost rigs is to be able to add them easily to the existing Balloon kit and kite kits, offering everything you need in one box for almost nothing extra. Currently we give instructions for the soda bottle rig, but I feel sending all the parts and plans for at least a mapping configuration makes such a kit feel like a complete product. I don't anticipate this would actually add to the cost of the kit. mathew and I are set to discuss adding some flavor of this in the future.

I definitely don't view a thumbtack version as viable, compared with the mechanism you're working on. That was kinda just for fun. I do think the chopstick and cardboard mapping rig is a real solution, and the pendulum rig for mobius is usable as is (or could be) with a few adjustments.

I was more thinking that having little "hacker kits" of common parts is a good way to support development that can become plans for rigs anyone can build, using only found materials and no tools, buying nothing from us at all.

I also agree these are viable as 3d printed products, and once the design matures over some iterations, there will be opportunity to then find a more mass-market manufacturing solution. I think it's all really exciting, and you've been kicking out some amazing creations!

[tonyc](../profile/tonyc) replying to: [The JerkPan](../notes/cfastie/01-27-2016/the-jerkpan)

