---
node: Tiny spectromter - Hacking a LASER barcode scanner
author: shubham
created_at: 2016-02-01 16:57:09 +0000
timestamp: 1454345829
nid: 12639
cid: 13448
uid: 460486
---



[shubham](../profile/shubham) replying to: [Tiny spectromter - Hacking a LASER barcode scanner](../notes/shubham/02-01-2016/tiny-spectromter-hacking-a-laser-barcode-scanner)

----
I'm sorry if I wasn't very clear there.I DON'T mean to use laser as a source. I was just explaining the working of the scanner.

[@warren](/profile/warren) 
(White) Light would be coming from a slit which would be situated in the 'window' part of the scanner (which points towards the barcode). Rotating the grating would allow different wavelengths of light to fall on the detector. If the motion of the grating is known, we can have a relation between angle of rotation (corresponding to the wavelength falling on detector) vs intensity recorded (of that wavelength). This is same as monochromators which are very common form of spectrometers.

[@JSummers](/profile/JSummers)
I would like to use a CCD instead of the motor assembly for two obvious reasons: No hassle to control the motor movement & no need to compute the data obtained and correlating that to the rotation. But I'm in particular impressed with the snugly fit optics on the PCB. That gives me some confidence that such tiny stuff could be made. I am trying to collect resources and information how this can be done. I'm sure everyone here is aware of Scio (https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=2C83tbuBmWY). 

Sorry Warren, I didn't attached the pic, if I'm still unclear i'll draw one. BTW thanks for the link, they are quite inexpensive compared to here in India. I need to find some alternative here though.