---
cid: 13458
node: [Tiny spectromter - Hacking a LASER barcode scanner](../notes/shubham/02-01-2016/tiny-spectromter-hacking-a-laser-barcode-scanner)
nid: 12639
created_at: 2016-02-02 20:03:53 +0000
timestamp: 1454443433
uid: 462290
author: [wjw](../profile/wjw)
---

Aha!  Those marked up photos help a great deal!  Thanks [@shubham](/profile/shubham).
Your answers are not at all half witted.  I just asked in case you happened to know and because I am interested.
I had in mind a rotating barrel mirror as compared to a pivoting flat mirror, so the mark-up is very helpful.  

Here is one more question for you:  What brand/model of bar code reader did that assembly come out of?  That might help provide some clues as to what the components are and where specifications might be found.  

Based on what I see there, the drive motor looks like it might be just a magnetic inductor that pulls the mirror across it's full movement.  

Is there any obvious physical connection between the drive motor and the pivoting mirror?  
Is there a spring type return to move the mirror back to a 'default' or 'home' position?  
Just trying to figure out the what would drive that mirror back and forth from a mechanical perspective and at what speed it might traverse the length of its travel.  

As I mentioned, I am not all that familiar with the guts of a spectrometer: So I have a question.... 

Assuming that you will use the pivoting mirror as is (same dimensions), how tight of a grid would have to be placed on it to make it useful for distinguishing between frequencies?  Would one really need a grid?  If one knows the position of the pivot mirror relative to the focusing mirror, does that not indicate the prism effect and therefore allow one to determine the frequency of light focused on the detector?  Like I said, I am rather ignorant of the theory here, so thought I would ask you to help educate me a bit.  

I am wondering if instead of pulling that assembly apart and using it's components, one might be able to figure out a way to use it as assembled.  If the detector is capable of distinguishing and responding to all the frequencies of the visible spectrum (or most anyway) and the focus mirror is already all lined up, then the only thing one might have to do is find a way to get tight control of the movement of the pivot mirror and replace the diode with the light access slot that you mentioned.  

If you can provide that make/model of the original unit, and are willing to share, I would like to see if I can find a similar one and play around with the existing electronics a bit.  There must be some signal processing already going on there to distinguish the light/dark areas on a bar code and turn that info into a digital representation of the bar code.  That in itself might be useful to understand.  There are two chips showing on the upper side of the PCB that might lead to some pretty good clues about how the processing is taking place already....

Just a thought....

Thanks for indulging me!  Your project is intriguing...  :-) 

[wjw](../profile/wjw) replying to: [Tiny spectromter - Hacking a LASER barcode scanner](../notes/shubham/02-01-2016/tiny-spectromter-hacking-a-laser-barcode-scanner)

