---
cid: 13461
node: [Tiny spectromter - Hacking a LASER barcode scanner](../notes/shubham/02-01-2016/tiny-spectromter-hacking-a-laser-barcode-scanner)
nid: 12639
created_at: 2016-02-03 12:12:06 +0000
timestamp: 1454501526
uid: 460486
author: [shubham](../profile/shubham)
---

Hi [@wjw](/profile/wjw) sir. Just realized you're a retired engineer and much senior to me. Model of the scanner is this https://www.barcodesinc.com/metrologic/ms9520.htm. I got it from scrap market for almost a dollar (in Delhi).

Yes, the mirror does return to the home position when displaced, guess there's some spring mechanism. There's a copper plate behind the mirror which acts like a spring. Mirror is simply pasted on this plate and follow its movement. Plate is pivoted at one side. On the back side of the plate (front side has mirror pasted), is a small magnet pasted, which is close to the solenoid. Solenoid core too has some iron parts (to increase magnetism i suppose), which seem to attract/repel the magnet pasted on the copper plate.

How can I know the speed at which it traverse? I guess that would depend on the force (current in the solenoid [proportional to magnetic field]).

Assuming by grid you mean a diffraction grating, I guess a normal inexpensive holographic grating or DVD piece should suffice (but greater thickness of DVD might give some ghost reflection- because some of the light reflecting from the mirror will be reflected back again by the DVD onto the mirror again, besides some of it getting transmitted through DVD).

You need something to split the light. Grating/Prism does exactly that. Only then could you employ relation between rotation angle and frequency.

Two chips you mentioned are : 'Metrologic MLPN26410 76C 5041A' and '2416 W6'. There's one more chip (square shaped) on the other side of the PCB and says '64F3062F25 H8/3062 BBL 0449 TL10746' (seems like processor to me- got a lot of legs on all 4 sides).

Note: This system is there in almost all the barcode scanners available in the market (which use laser). So you can pick any cheaper variant if it serves the purpose.

I love to share as much as I can. It would be great if you/us/I could take it to completion.

Thanks for being involved. :)

[shubham](../profile/shubham) replying to: [Tiny spectromter - Hacking a LASER barcode scanner](../notes/shubham/02-01-2016/tiny-spectromter-hacking-a-laser-barcode-scanner)

