---
node: How to calibrate infragram's Mobius camera for get accurate NDVI index?
author: cfastie
created_at: 2016-02-05 13:06:19 +0000
timestamp: 1454677579
nid: 12613
cid: 13477
uid: 554
---



[cfastie](../profile/cfastie) replying to: [How to calibrate infragram's Mobius camera for get accurate NDVI index?](../notes/Parth/01-25-2016/how-to-calibrate-infragram-s-mobius-camera-for-get-accurate-ndvi-index)

----
Parth,

Red filters like the Rosco [#19](/n/19) block most blue and green light, so the blue and green channels cannot receive the colors that they would normally capture. In an Infragram camera (with IR block filter replaced with the red filter) those two channels receive mostly NIR light and capture images of the NIR reflected from the scene. 

Although the blue and green channels are capturing mostly NIR light, the camera does not know this. The camera's computer continues to process photos based on the assumption that the blue and green channels captured blue and green light, respectively. The colors in the jpeg photo produced by the camera are a function of the relative brightness of the three color channels. When the brightness of two of the channels is unrelated to the brightness of the visible colors, the color balance of the final photo will be completely artificial. 

Although no blue light reached the sensor, if the blue channel is brighter that the other two channels, the jpeg photo will look blue. The custom white balance setting of the Mobius Infragram exaggerates the brightness of the blue channel causing areas of high NIR reflectance to appear blue. Areas in the scene that reflect more red light than NIR light might appear reddish, regardless of the natural color of the area.

Chris