---
cid: 13494
node: [Baseline noise removal test in Spectral Workbench 2](../notes/warren/02-05-2016/noise-removal-test-in-spectral-workbench-2)
nid: 12659
created_at: 2016-02-05 19:25:06 +0000
timestamp: 1454700306
uid: 54025
author: [stoft](../profile/stoft)
---

I'm confused by the two plots. The 'noisy' plot doesn't have the signal so I'm guessing it's an average of what is left after chopping off anything above 15% of max? Chopping out data inherantly produces artifacts (errors). I'm also not understanding what the "add back 15%" is doing -- just numerically adding the offset to the peaks back after 15% was subtracted? I suspect this is not error free.

I'm also not convinced of this as "noise reduction"; it's sort of a "baseline subtraction" technique but not noise reduction. It's more similar to the visual cut-off of the "grass" (noise) of an analog RF spectrum analyzer. It looks nicer but doesn't improve the SNR.

To do noise reduction (which I do promote as a viable technique), you need to actually increase the SNR without eliminating either small, sharp peaks or low level broad "bumps" in the spectrum as both of those have real information which should be preserved.

One noise reduction technique I suggested in my HDR notes ( https://publiclab.org/notes/stoft/5-25-2013/hdr-search-high-er-dynamic-range and https://publiclab.org/notes/stoft/03-09-2014/hdr2-using-over-exposure-to-your-advantage ) is to grab, and average, a few lines of camera data just outside of the spectral RGB band but within the same camera image area. That represents the camera's "dark noise" (well, dark noise + light leakage and quantization noise from an 8-bit ADC). Subtracting that data does remove things like errant refracted light that is not part of the diffraction process. The data is averaged because you will simply subtract this background "DC" noise offset from the real signal you get from using 3 parallel lines of in-band data.

Next, you could automatically take a set of 3-5 "passes of data" for a given spectra and average those because with Gaussian noise (most of the webcam noise) the noise will decorrelate and leave only the correlated signals -- although broad, low SNR "humps" may still suffer a bit. Note, 3 "passes" of data means 3-5 separate sets of frame data, even if they are successive frames.

For residual noise within the spectrum, you need to 1) average 3 parallel lines of spectral data from within a single frame (which decorrelates the in-spectrum camera noise) and 2) average (LPF) the final spectrum where the LPF cutoff is no lower than about 1-2nm so as to preserve the real data resolution of 2-3nm for the best of PLab systems.

These can all be directly implemented with simple math from the frame data you can already collect. If some are fast enough, they could simply be automatic.



[stoft](../profile/stoft) replying to: [Baseline noise removal test in Spectral Workbench 2](../notes/warren/02-05-2016/noise-removal-test-in-spectral-workbench-2)

