---
node: Riffle conductivity caps and other housing ideas
author: mathew
created_at: 2016-02-10 21:48:54 +0000
timestamp: 1455140934
nid: 12674
cid: 13564
uid: 4
---



[mathew](../profile/mathew) replying to: [Riffle conductivity caps and other housing ideas](../notes/mathew/02-10-2016/riffle-conductivity-caps-and-other-housing-ideas)

----
Thanks!

I bet the thermal coupling with a temperature probe could be easily accomplished with some heatsink thermal paste connecting the temperature sensor to a screw through the cap.

That said, I'm strongly in preference to building more components around the stopper-based design and will focus on that, and conductivity setups that fit through the stopper, along with a thermistor.

While I'm sensitive to this use case of rapidly deployed DIY conductivity, I'm more interested in a more rigid bottle platform supporting a variety of sensor configurations.  

As a thin piece of HDPE, the cap is a very confining component on top of a very confining (22mm wide) housing size.  It seems to me that the ease of setting up a screws-through-the-cap demo has been driving this design, while it introduces a host of other problems without satisfactory solutions:  

My primary concern is the rigidity of the internal riffle mount and security of wiring between sensor and riffle. The cap and the riffle can't be rigidly connected because sensors take up the whole cap surface.  So the riffle must be mounted independently, and space given to twist the wires between riffle and bottle. The wires are inherently going to get yanked around and that is a reliability issue.

Putting screws through the cap solves a single sensor use-case at the expense of all others since we haven't identified any way to put other sensors through caps at the same time. 

If we're going to do screws-through-the-cap as a default configuration suggestion, I'm skeptical that 6-32 screws are worth using despite their ease of availability. 6-32 screws are easy to get, but the ease of working with them stops there:

* Its hard to make properly sized holes for them, as the cap material is hard to drill out and too wide to be poked through with a tack without dramatic warping.
* The screws are awfully crowded in the cap, especially trying to keep the ring terminals from touching.
* Its hard to fit the screws and the ring terminals in a way that doesn't effect the cap's threads. 
The screws are big enough that they warp the surface of the cap and create flexion during tightening and loosening, a structural issue that might become a calibration issue.
