---
node: NDVI from infrared and visible-light
author: cfastie
created_at: 2016-02-16 14:26:42 +0000
timestamp: 1455632802
nid: 12676
cid: 13632
uid: 554
---



[cfastie](../profile/cfastie) replying to: [NDVI from infrared and visible-light](../notes/Rayishido/02-10-2016/ndvi-from-infrared-and-visible-light)

----
The NDVI image in my last comment was made by stretching only the NIR channel. The default is to stretch both NIR and VIS and that usually works well. Sometimes stretching only one channel works better. 

NDVI requires information about both NIR and VIS. The information can come from two photos or one photo with NIR and VIS separated into different channels. Using a blue filter on the PiNoir camera does some separation, but there is some VIS and NIR in all channels. Using a red filter does a better job of producing a pure NIR channel (blue channel) but has a lot of NIR mixed in with red in the red channel. Either a red or blue filter does enough separation that the NDVI results can resemble real NDVI. But results can be highly variable and hard to interpret. 

Using two cameras allows you to capture pure VIS photos (unmodified camera) and pure NIR photos. If you are flying two cameras, NDVI results will probably be better if the NIR camera records only NIR. The PiNoir could have a Wratten 87 or developed color film as the filter so only NIR reaches the sensor.

Are you triggering the shutters of two Pi cameras from one Raspberry Pi? How well are the shutters synchronized?

Chris  
[The KAPtery](http://kaptery.com)
