---
cid: 13720
node: [Caroline Witts Sensor Journalism Response](../notes/cwitts20/02-24-2016/caroline-witts-sensor-journalism-response)
nid: 12728
created_at: 2016-02-24 02:38:53 +0000
timestamp: 1456281533
uid: 554
author: [cfastie](../profile/cfastie)
---

The tools of environmental science have been available to journalists for as long as there has been environmental science. Environmental scientists commonly use simple tools like tape measures, rulers, light meters, thermometers, shovels, field guides, color charts, cameras, and notebooks. Environmental scientists might walk around a wetland documenting the depth to ground water with a shovel, ruler, and notebook. The edge of a wetland might be delineated by identifying where certain species of plant grow. Photos taken throughout the year can document the highest and lowest water levels in a pond. But there has never been anything called shovel journalism, or ruler journalism.

Journalists could have purchased or borrowed the tools needed to answer many environmental questions, but instead they spent their time doing other things. Most journalists would not have known what to do with the tools of an environmental scientist. Had they tried, their lack of training and experience would have probably prevented them from using the tools correctly or interpreting the results properly. 

Why do journalists suddenly want to do the job of environmental scientists? What has changed to make them think they have any idea how to carry out a field study or interpret the results? 

Chris


[cfastie](../profile/cfastie) replying to: [Caroline Witts Sensor Journalism Response](../notes/cwitts20/02-24-2016/caroline-witts-sensor-journalism-response)

