---
node: 405nm LED vs Laser
author: stoft
created_at: 2016-02-24 22:36:22 +0000
timestamp: 1456353382
nid: 12725
cid: 13741
uid: 54025
---



[stoft](../profile/stoft) replying to: [405nm LED vs Laser](../notes/stoft/02-23-2016/405nm-led-vs-laser)

----
Ok, good points and questions.

[ I do not intend to sound abrupt. I'm just focused on raising technical issues I see within and surrounding this topic while attempting to make good scientific measurements and focused on prompting questions to be investigated. My experiments form a few data points -- and yes, we need more documented data points. ]

1 - LED power. I note that you did not provide info about your circuit (i.e. series resistance) nor voltage at the USB output under load not the series current. It was my understanding that USB ports generally provide a maximum of 500mA (I think some may be much less). However, they may also include current limiters to prevent USB interface power supply damage so not actually supply 500mA (which is the current I found necessary for obtaining fluorescence signatures similar to those from the UV laser). There is also the issue of power supply design for the LED. Just assuming that if it "seems to work" off a USB port on one system is not a good design technique. For designing a "product" it is necessary to actually measure all parameters and be able to ensure that ALL USB ports it might be used with could provide the required power *without* any possibility of over-stressing the commercial device (ie. someone's expensive laptop). So, I stick to my statement of concern. However, at the moment, there is insufficient performance measurements to assign operating parameters to declare the required power supply design. Also, along these lines, I found that the voltage drop of the LED changes some with the self-heating when using the LED at higher currents. This suggests that to achieve a stable LED output level, as would be needed for measurements, the circuit would require a few added parts for a current control feedback loop to assure stable current during and between measurements. It is just not so simple as wiring any LED to any USB port.

2 - LED Bandwidth: Yes, I was largely referring to the additional errors in the 400-450nm region of the fluorescence spectra. Remember, most oil fluorescence spectra actually extend well below 400nm and having to chop off data below 450nm because the LED error begins to swamp the measurement differences one is attempting to perform is a problem. Recall that the spectrometer only has a 400-650nm detection bandwidth (with reasonable errors) so it is best to not throw any of that away. The 405nm Laser is VERY narrow band (much more narrow than what the PLab spectrometer can measure -- in all probability, if you measure the PLab FWHM bandwidth using the 405nm laser, that will essentially give you the resolution bandwidth of the PLab hardware.).

Also, though I do not have much hard data, there are indications that the wide-band energy of the LED does not create the same Fluorescence spectra as the monochromatic laser. I think this would be expected as commercial devices sometimes use more than one UV wavelength laser source to improve diagnostics. Considering the early proto development stage of the PLab OTK hardware and analysis, I see the LED alternative as potentially adding additional complexity to the challenge of spectral repeatability and analysis.

3 - Oil weight and wavelength shifts: Yes, some of my curves in my OTK analysis research note ( https://publiclab.org/notes/stoft/01-26-2016/otk-proto3-analysis ) do show the wavelength shift and I also have a plot of that shift looking at both the "peak" and the "centroid" of the peak. Yes, I'd agree that appears to be evidence that oil weight, type and concentration cal all exhibit some shift -- but that shift is clearly not linear. In addition, as my OTK analysis plot (top of the note) shows, I could only find weak correlations -- the placement of my "colored rectangles".

This relates back to the LED vs Laser question. My guess is that the LED, because it is wide band, is much more likely to stimulate additional fluorescence modes. This could be an issue if you think about the shape of the fluorescence spectra. When illuminated with a monochromatic source, the spectra is still broad -- largely, I believe, because the single wavelength, when stimulating the huge variety of molecules, produces a large array of fluorescence "peaks" which overlap to produce the broad spectra you see. (i.e. instead of single-wavelength spectral spikes).  If each molecule had it's own unique wavelength, the analysis task would be much much easier. Instead, it's a muddled mess of noisy spectra -- all from just a single wavelength stimulus. Now, consider a noisy, broad spectrum source (the LED) -- my intuition suggests that this issue can only get more complicated, not less, and likely includes non-linear relationships.

4 - Scattering: Sorry for the confusion, I was mostly referring to my observation that when using just water, the nature of scattering from the diffuse LED source shows a strong 405nm LED signature. However, when observing oils and fluorescence with the LED, that broadband 405 peak can be much smaller. Also, the same 405nm LED peak appears at various levels in the spectra depending on the sample type. I concluded that, unlike the Laser, the LED source has significant variability to the source UV energy in the test spectra (and, i.e. variable additive error which is an additional complexity) which is much harder to remove than the vary narrow band laser signature. In my OTK proto, I was easily able to align the lasers' beam to minimize scattering which directly enhanced the SNR near the UV end. I saw that as a clear advantage because it allows getting much closer to having a full 400-650nm spectral width to analyze and you'll need all you can get.

5 - I'm raising questions about all of these issues: wavelength overlap, multi-wavelength stimulation affecting the spectra (probably non-linear as well), proper design and control of LED current and power source, thermal heating of the sample (and it's effect on fluorescence) because the LED (at 100-deg) must be so close to the cuvette, oil weight and concentration dependent scattering errors, and LED efficiency. (I needed over 500mA of current just to get close to the fluorescence intensity of the laser source. This is important because as samples become more dilute (yet still very toxic) even more UV energy is required to obtain a usable SNR to get a signature. To do this with a wide dispersion LED could likely require much higher current LEDs -- and much higher $$$)

6 - What I said was that I found that the LED I tested (the one you'd found) to be far less suitable to observing oil fluorescence spectra than the OTKs 405nm laser and I identified some issues and potential issues that will exist with using an LED which would not be there with a laser.

I'd agree that it's still too early to quantify all the performance parameters of either LED or Laser. However, after some simple comparative measurements, I wanted to clarify what I saw as some muddy water surrounding the concept of swapping a laser source for an LED source. It's not a simple swap. While their center wavelengths may be similar, they are not an equivalent class of device and oil analysis, even with the laser, is itself still far from well understood.
