---
cid: 13778
node: [Shallow note on depth](../notes/donblair/01-14-2015/shallow-note-on-depth)
nid: 11522
created_at: 2016-03-02 04:07:26 +0000
timestamp: 1456891646
uid: 43651
author: [donblair](../profile/donblair)
---

This sounds like it might prompt a PVOS research trip up to Bernie Country ...

I need to write up a research note, but here's the basic idea (courtesy of a hacking session with Dan Beavers and Scott Eustis a while back):  we're exploiting the fact that a capacitor placed in a dielectric will have an enhanced capacitance.  We can make a capacitor out of a long extension cord, or another two-wire cable; the measured capacitance in the extension cord increases as more of it is placed in water (a dielectric).  So, if we can measure the capacitance, we might be able to correlate it with water depth.  Here's what I'd tried, in more detail:

- We used a 555 oscillator circuit, in which the output frequency f goes as 1 / RC, where R and C are a resistor and capacitor connected to the 555.   
- We chose a fixed resistor R and place it in the circuit; for C, I used a two-wire extension cord.  Both ends of the extension cord were cut:  the two wires on one end were hot glued, so that no wires were exposed to water; the two wires on the other end were connected a screw terminal on the breadboard, where the capacitor C is indicated in the schematic.
- [The schematic on this note](https://publiclab.org/notes/donblair/09-30-2014/coqui-bbv1-0) is the basic layout for the circuit.  In that note, we later choose a fixed through-hole capacitor for C, and connect a photodiode as a variable R; in this case here, we want to choose a fixed resistor R, and use the extension cord as our variable capacitor C. 
- The 555 when powered and connected in this fashion will output a frequency that is (if I recall) f = 0.7 / (R*C).  We then hook up pin D2 or D3 of an Arduino to measure the number of pulses per second (D2 and D3 have a special 'interrupt' feature which allows for counting fast pulses). 
- The hope is then that the frequency can be nicely correlated with the length of submerged extension cord.  The 555 frequency will go down as the capacitance in the extension cord increases; the capacitance increases when more of it is covered in water.  So, if we arrange the extension cord in the configuration of a 'meter stick' in the water, as the water level rises, the 555 frequency should go down. 
- I found that the measured capacitance C of tap water using an extension cord dipped in water only a little was on the order of 10 nanoFarads, it helps to know C when choosing R in order to get a frequency output in a reasonable range.  A typical Arduino is 16 MHz; I don't know what maximum frequency it can reasonably measure, but likely significantly less than 16 MHz. 

Do you have power in that spring house? 

[donblair](../profile/donblair) replying to: [Shallow note on depth](../notes/donblair/01-14-2015/shallow-note-on-depth)

