---
cid: 13780
node: [Shallow note on depth](../notes/donblair/01-14-2015/shallow-note-on-depth)
nid: 11522
created_at: 2016-03-02 05:02:49 +0000
timestamp: 1456894969
uid: 43651
author: [donblair](../profile/donblair)
---

Exactly.  Was confusing for me, too, as I'd been nursing a rather fixed mental picture of a parallel plate capacitor with a dielectric slab sandwiched in-between the plates.  But for long, parallel wires, I guess there is fringing of the field lines into the water. 

The trick here is whether the measurements are repeatable and stable; the link I referenced in my initial comment on the note is a study of capacitive depth sensors, and tries to assess how conductivity biofilms affect the measurements.

That said, if you want to measure "is the water level above X feet or not",  I would think you could fairly reliably measure that with this system by placing the end of the wire at the threshold of interest -- the difference between water being present, or not, should be fairly dramatic.

That said, in such a "binary" case you could just use two wires directly, perhaps -- no special circuitry needed.

Regarding power, I suspect that [this](http://www.seeedstudio.com/depot/36V-Micro-hydro-generator-p-634.html
) won't do the trick (insufficient pressure?), but it looks pretty neat anyway -- a little hydro-generator, with internal battery.

(Aside: if you could: please refrain from voicing the "... but if I needed to check *that* environmental parameter, I could just walk over and look at the ..." critique in a public forum?  You'll blow my entire gig.)



[donblair](../profile/donblair) replying to: [Shallow note on depth](../notes/donblair/01-14-2015/shallow-note-on-depth)

