---
node: Gather and analyze long term solar and wind data for my locale
author: wjw
created_at: 2016-03-05 08:31:02 +0000
timestamp: 1457166662
nid: 12610
cid: 13811
uid: 462290
---



[wjw](../profile/wjw) replying to: [Gather and analyze long term solar and wind data for my locale](../notes/wjw/01-25-2016/gather-and-analyze-long-term-solar-and-wind-data-for-my-locale)

----
My initial testing has been reasonably successful.  The hardware is workable, though I had to move the rain gage off the post due to the fact that, in windy conditions, it provides enough resistance to shake the entire assembly, rendering rain gage measurements unreliable.  Beyond that:
* the Pro Trinket works well.  I did exchange the 3.3V for a 5V model though.

* the DS18B20 temp sensor is accurate and reliable

* interupt pins for annemometer and rain gage sensors are performing well

* wind vane direction recording is solid now that the appropriate voltage values have been applied

* I moved to a full size proto board to give room for other sensors later (barometric, humidity, etc..)
 
* I have added a light sensor and am getting lux, broadband and IR readings from it
 
* XBee series 1 radios worked ok, but I chose to get XBee Pro's (64mw) to ensure readings over long distances
 
* Power is still a bit of a challenge:
 *   The solar panel outputs 7+ volts which is too much for some of the sensors, which I prefer to run on buss voltage as compared to the 5V regulated voltage from the Pro Trinket
 *  A DC/DC converter takes care of the voltage issue, but they are delicate
 * Inserted a schottky diode between the solar panel and the battery charger to prevent back-flow to the panel when it is shaded or dark out.  
 * added a 3v voltage regulator along with a small buss for future use of 3v sensors
 * have a 5V regulator which will be added between the battery and the buss.
 * Will be using a 6V NiMH battery of 3400 mAh
 * Software has been solid.  Will be very few mods from this point on.  Probably only for added sensors.
* Still some reading and adjustment to make on the XBee's.  Theay are damn hard to work with!

********       
There is about 5 hours worth of work/testing to do before I re-deploy to the back deck again.  If all systems work for the rest of the month of March, I will final deploy at the Farm in April.  At that point the last challenge will be to ensure the wireless network from the Farm house reaches the RPi and is reliable.  The Perl script running as a daemon on the RPi to receive data from the Arduino via the XBee is running great, starts on boot, and takes very little CPU or memory.  The simple web page showing a graph of the various weather values is roughed out, will add more graphs so data is easier to read: one graph per data type.  Graphs are interactive, so users can have some fun with them.  SQLite DB is good to go, and Perl plays nicely with it.  The final step here in the shop is to mount the Arduino and company in a weather proof box, mount the solar panel, and physically place the ligtht sensor.  
*********
This project is nearly done.  Time to start planning for the Pollinator Monitoring project.  Lots of new stuff there, with some new power challenges to solve.  