---
cid: 13815
node: [Caroline Witts Sensor Journalism Response](../notes/cwitts20/02-24-2016/caroline-witts-sensor-journalism-response)
nid: 12728
created_at: 2016-03-08 03:12:51 +0000
timestamp: 1457406771
uid: 554
author: [cfastie](../profile/cfastie)
---

Hi Catherine,

Thanks for the level-headed summary. I was hoping to engage your students, but then they retreated behind the new “response” tag which is very clever. Anyway the students were apparently far too smart to take my bait.

Discussions of this topic always seem to lack very much context. For example, you could argue that sensor journalism has been around for a long time. In the 19th century, journalists could not publish warnings about where hurricanes would make landfall in four days, or where the temperature would be below zero in a week. For the last several decades the media has been bombarding us with severe weather warnings because many thousands of sensors send data quickly to central locations where scientists run weather models with the data and make predictions. The journalists have nothing to do with the sensors or the analysis, but their reporting depends on them.  Many of the stories journalists report today depend on information collected by sensors and analyzed by scientists or technicians. Journalists are not clamoring to use their own resources to add more weather stations, or tide gauges, or seismographs, or radar stations, etc., etc., etc. 

Weather and tides and earthquakes are mostly politically neutral, so everyone supported government expansion of the sensor networks to track these things. Pollution is usually politically charged, so governments (e.g., EPA) have been slower to expand the network of contaminant sensors in the air and water. Also, these sensors are more expensive and less reliable than weather stations. 

As sensors become less expensive and more reliable, private citizens could build out the network of pollution sensors, and journalists could be part of that expansion. But in most cases, by the time sensors are cheap and easy enough for journalists to put them to good use, many other groups will have already done it. Maybe more often than not, the journalists should be looking for those groups instead of ordering things from Adafruit.

Chris


[cfastie](../profile/cfastie) replying to: [Caroline Witts Sensor Journalism Response](../notes/cwitts20/02-24-2016/caroline-witts-sensor-journalism-response)

