---
node: NDVI Research with an Analytical Grow Chamber
author: cfastie
created_at: 2016-03-10 04:33:16 +0000
timestamp: 1457584396
nid: 12768
cid: 13845
uid: 554
---



[cfastie](../profile/cfastie) replying to: [NDVI Research with an Analytical Grow Chamber](../notes/JohnsonC/03-03-2016/ndvi-research-with-an-analytical-grow-chamber)

----
I am not sure what your question is. I assume the red LEDs emit some NIR, but maybe not very much. With only red and blue LEDs, the amount of NIR reflected from healthy leaves could be very low (because little is impacting the leaves) compared to the amount of blue reflected from healthy leaves. So NDVI values for healthy leaves could be negative. But it depends on how much NIR is emitted by the LEDs used.

A leaf can change its photosynthetic behavior when its environment changes, but taking some photos while some NIR LEDS are on might not have much erroneous effect on the NDVI results. The leaves just reflect most of the NIR.

NDVI is mostly a measure of how much visible light is being absorbed by leaves. One way to quantify that is to shine the same amount of visible and NIR light on the leaves and measure how much of each is reflected. Healthy leaves will reflect several times more NIR than visible. But if the incoming levels of visible and NIR are not similar, the NDVI formula does not give results comparable with legacy (satellite) NDVI. With legacy NDVI, the proportion of visible and NIR shining on the plants is known (it's always sunlight). If you don't reproduce that proportion in your experiment, the NDVI values you get will not be in the range of legacy NDVI. 

If your goal is not to compare your results with legacy NDVI, there is nothing wrong with your NDVI values being negative. If you always use the same lights when your photos are taken, you can compare among your results regardless of what absolute values you get for NDVI. But it's important to have some incoming NIR if you are going to use reflected NIR to compare to reflected visible light.