---
cid: 13886
node: [Final data analysis for 10w40 motor oil using 400nm UV LED mar12](../notes/dhaffnersr/03-12-2016/final-data-analysis-for-10w40-motor-oil-using-400nm-uv-led-mar12)
nid: 12838
created_at: 2016-03-13 12:48:45 +0000
timestamp: 1457873325
uid: 461120
author: [dhaffnersr](../profile/dhaffnersr)
---

Hey Dave, thank you so very much for your analysis and input, I do have a few questions for you though first, I know that you are using a Sanm CM-020 camera module in your prototype and upon researching that module I know the only specs on it are pretty much just dimensions, there are no given values for the camera's lux sensitivity or any other info.

So my question is, even though your prototype has greater stability and grating design, how can it be anymore sensitive than the Plab spectrometer?

I ran a series of methylene blue tests yesterday from my Gram staining kit, (which the bottle of methylene blue is 1 percent aqueous solution) using my UV laser 405nm, I got the 2 peaks at 603nm and 663nm which the data on record shows is already predicted at shown at 609nm and 668nm. Now my procedure for this was pretty straight forward, I made 7 dilutions so I could compare each for absorption and concentration and my 1st and 2nd dilutions provided results that were, in my opinion, very close to prediction.

I also know my snr with the 0.18mm slit that I am using

 	signal	shot noise	flicker noise	total noise	signal/noise	signal/background
        180.0	13.4	                         18.0	 25.43	                  7.08	       5.56
Background	32.4	                          5.7	         3.2	 	 	   	

Now as far as processing the oil, I can do 1 of 2 things, 1 just scan it the way it is and just get a lump on the graph, which is fine if that's the goal (which is probably fine if your sampling oil in water) or 2, breaking down the aromatic hydrocarbon bonds into their respective components, which is cool also, and maybe more useful, maybe just a perspective thing. So my goal is to test the limits and capabilities of this spectrometer the way it is, with the hardware that it comes with.

I did specify in my post how I separated the hydrocarbons in the oil sample, that's why I used the ethyl acetate and ethanol mix, they can dissolve both polar and non-polar substances, which of course oil is non-polar, each solvent has it's own unique properties for separating conjugation.

I have another question, I have to use a CFL calibration to export my spectral data, is that a problem, and if so how do I solve that?








	  

[dhaffnersr](../profile/dhaffnersr) replying to: [Final data analysis for 10w40 motor oil using 400nm UV LED mar12](../notes/dhaffnersr/03-12-2016/final-data-analysis-for-10w40-motor-oil-using-400nm-uv-led-mar12)

