---
node: Final data analysis for 10w40 motor oil using 400nm UV LED mar12
author: stoft
created_at: 2016-03-13 19:23:29 +0000
timestamp: 1457897009
nid: 12838
cid: 13901
uid: 54025
---



[stoft](../profile/stoft) replying to: [Final data analysis for 10w40 motor oil using 400nm UV LED mar12](../notes/dhaffnersr/03-12-2016/final-data-analysis-for-10w40-motor-oil-using-400nm-uv-led-mar12)

----
Dave, I'll comment in reverse order:

- The Spekwin plots: While I do not have/use that program, I can see that the plot has auto-detected peaks and applied nm values. While very clever and convenient, I can also see that the data shows the quantization of the camera data (i.e. +/- 2 steps, where 1 step = LSB (least significant bit)). I hope you can understand that these "peaks" are not signal peaks but just noise. Yes, there is a signal (negative polarity at 400nm so I suspect just a plotting mode to show difference; not sure. I believe the smaller stuff is all just noise.

- The PLab based spectrometer's webcam does have limited sensitivity and limited bit-depth (dynamic range) but it has been shown, under sufficient signal conditions, to measure light sources, reflected light, absorption and fluorescence. The limits are not mode dependent so much as sensitivity dependent. Oil fluorescence, for example, can be detected but requires a strong UV source such as the 405nm laser. The UV output of various sources remains an issue as we as yet have no simple means of characterizing those source absolute intensities. The 405nm 'kit' laser claims 5mW. I just tested a 25mW 405nm laser module from Amazon, expecting to observe a stronger fluorescence signature but saw nothing (and the laser did not look as bright). Clearly, there are issues of reported vs actual signal strength of UV sources on the open market.

- Sensitivity of spectrometer cameras: Again, I've made no claims that my proto has better sensitivity -- only better stability and somewhat lower noise from ambient light, mechanical stability and lower 405nm carrier signal energy (which allows for more fluorescence signal).

- Writing equations in text format is difficult, but sometimes the better way. Perhaps it is sufficient to write that the Transmittance (T) of a light source (such as the laser) = the Absorption (A) ^ (power of) -10 ; [ T = A^-10 ].

- Your photos appear to show the 405nm laser oriented directly in-line with the cuvette and the spectrometer's slit and camera detection. This seems assured to produce a very strong laser signature at 405nm. Assuming this is right, and assuming you then set the spectrometer attenuation to not clip on the laser signature, any fluorescence signature would be down in the noise. The original concept was to position the laser orthogonal to the spectrometer's light path to minimize the laser carrier signal and thus maximize the fluorescence signature.

- That said, you also state that you know you are not getting fluorescence -- but was that with an LED source? I could not understand the correlation between references to the LEDs as sources and the photos with a laser. Perhaps I missed something.

- Signal and noise numbers: There were no units, so I'm assuming they are linear measurement values. If so, then the signal peak is '180' and the total noise is '25' which gives 20*Log(180/25) = 17dB which is rather low. Again, without units, I'm only guessing here.

- Chemistry: There may be some interesting processes here, but not being a chemist, additional clarification in your research note would be useful. methylene blue is a common biological stain so I'm guessing your idea was to stain the aromatic hydrocarbons (which can fluoresce) of the oil and then detect the amount of stained material via spectroscopy? The other method appears to be focused on isolation of the aromatic hydrocarbons which can fluoresce but then I could not follow the concept beyond that.

At a more abstract level, I'm suggesting you use a step-by-step process in documentation within your research note (especially when the process is potentially this complex) such that readers of many backgrounds can follow your reasoning and observations. Hope this helps.
