---
cid: 13911
node: [NDVI to Assess Forage Quality, Question.](../notes/AFairbairn/03-12-2016/ndvi-to-assess-forage-quality-question)
nid: 12839
created_at: 2016-03-14 12:14:06 +0000
timestamp: 1457957646
uid: 468688
author: [AFairbairn](../profile/AFairbairn)
---

Chris, Thank you again for all the great information. I would assume the filter you found on PeauProductions website is the one in the lens I purchased from them. That would only make sense. When I shot the composite image above, camera settings were ISO 100, 1/320 shutter speed, 0 exposure comp, normal colour saturation and white balance set to cloudy.

As I understand from the information you provided, the camera should be pretty good at providing NDVI images. What I still need to find is materials for calibration. Tar paper, and pine are not necessarily ideal materials. I found this: http://www.mosaicmill.com/products/hardware/ndvi_tools.html while looking around and it appears to be just a white, middle grey and black panel. However they do not provide any real information. I am wondering if I could do something similar. It would be nice to find a material that reflected quite high in the 450nm range and one quite high in the 800nm range. As I understand it that would provide me with the best form of calibration. Although essentially anything would do, so long as I know the ndvi value of the material or not?

Aluminium has a pretty high reflectance of all wavelengths, I wonder if I could use it somehow? Making a panel out of aluminum foil would be quite easy and inexpensive. I may have to test this. I will continue to look further, and unless you can think of a reason I am oblivious to that foil is a silly idea, I will try and take some test shots.

Regards,
-Andrew

[AFairbairn](../profile/AFairbairn) replying to: [NDVI to Assess Forage Quality, Question.](../notes/AFairbairn/03-12-2016/ndvi-to-assess-forage-quality-question)

