---
cid: 13915
node: [NDVI to Assess Forage Quality, Question.](../notes/AFairbairn/03-12-2016/ndvi-to-assess-forage-quality-question)
nid: 12839
created_at: 2016-03-14 15:47:19 +0000
timestamp: 1457970439
uid: 554
author: [cfastie](../profile/cfastie)
---

`ISO 100, 1/320 shutter speed`

That is much better than I thought would be possible. I don't know how those skinny little bands provide enough light for that.

`the camera should be pretty good at providing NDVI images.`

If you accept the problems with using blue for visible light and the cross contamination.

MosaicMill doesn't tell us much, but commercial targets like that should have a flat reflectance curve. So a 50% target reflects 50% of all wavelengths (VIS and NIR). That makes it easy to know how much of the wavelengths that your particular camera captures are being reflected. DIY targets don't need that convenience. All you need for the Peau filter is a few targets with a known reflectance at 450 nm and/or 800 nm. 

Theoretically, it would be good to have targets near 0% and 100% reflectance to establish the relationship between reflectance and what the camera captures. In reality, if the target reflects 100% of blue light, the target in your photo is going to be overexposed in the blue channel and you won't be able to calibrate at all. If it is not overexposed in the blue channel, the 0% target will be underexposed. So targets between 25% and 75% might be better. The calibration will not be as robust, but there will be a better chance of getting usable calibration photos on each mission.

Aluminum foil might be tricky material because it is shiny (in addition to reflecting too much). If sun glints off it in the photo, you will not collect useful information. Good commercial targets have matte surfaces and the reflectance percent does not change within a wide range of incident angles. DIY targets maybe won't be so easy to use, but aluminum foil might be asking for trouble.

The NDVI of the target does not have much meaning (at least to me). If you have a material that the internet says has a reflectance in the blue (450 nm) of 30% and in the NIR (800 nm) of 70%, then use those numbers in the csv file that the calibration routine reads. The more targets the better, especially to test the process. When you are convinced it is working, two points for each band (VIS, NIR) will give you an equation. Ideally that would be two targets, if you know the reflectance at both bands for both targets and they are all between about 25% and 75%. But using several targets is not much harder than using two and provides a better chance of having a full range of reflectance for each band.

If the reflectance numbers you use are wrong, then the NDVI values you compute will not be what a satellite would report. But if they are close, your results will be meaningful and you will still be able to compare between different fields or different days. Your NDVI values will never be comparable with legacy NDVI because you are using blue light mixed with NIR to represent visible light (instead of using pure red light). 

Chris


[cfastie](../profile/cfastie) replying to: [NDVI to Assess Forage Quality, Question.](../notes/AFairbairn/03-12-2016/ndvi-to-assess-forage-quality-question)

