---
node: Advanced Searching and Sorting Tool for publiclab.org
author: warren
created_at: 2016-03-15 14:22:30 +0000
timestamp: 1458051750
nid: 12837
cid: 13926
uid: 1
---



[warren](../profile/warren) replying to: [Advanced Searching and Sorting Tool for publiclab.org](../notes/Ujitha/03-12-2016/advanced-searching-and-sorting-tool-for-publiclab-org)

----
Hi, Ujitha - good overview here. I think Sunspot may have more promise than Elasticsearch -- I wasn't able to find Elasticsearch licensing information -- is it open source? That it's not hosted on a git repository seems a bit odd to me. I'm not sure we'd be interested in using a hosted commercial product instead of a standard module for search in Rails.

With Sunspot, we'd have to set up a Sunspot server, but that sounds reasonable. We could coordinate with [@icarito](/profile/icarito), our sysadmin, once you got a test version running. 

I like the idea of systemetizing and standardizing our search. We could also use a search function for tags in more places, such as to suggest tags from the tag form. And in the new Dashboard, we want a wiki-specific search in the right-hand column, and the Q&A project will need a good full-text search for when people type in new questions. So lots of good reasons to have an optimized and re-plumbed search. 

[@liz](/profile/liz), any thoughts on prioritization of this vs. other projects? I know the WWG priorities list shows both the Q&A feature and the Rich Profiles features, but not this Search and Sorting system. Depending on how many students apply, how would you prefer that we prioritize this?