---
node: GSOC 2016 : Expanded Q&A System
author: warren
created_at: 2016-03-15 15:07:18 +0000
timestamp: 1458054438
nid: 12835
cid: 13930
uid: 1
---



[warren](../profile/warren) replying to: [GSOC 2016 : Expanded Q&A System](../notes/jiteshxyz/03-11-2016/gsoc-2016-expanded-q-a-system)

----
Hi, Jitesh - great, very thorough proposal. A few comments:

One resource for Q&A is to look at existing questions, even if the prototype system we have is very crudely made. https://publiclab.org/tag/question:* will show you all questions currently asked, and any tag page, for example, https://publiclab.org/tag/balloon-mapping will show the "Ask a question" button and current minimal interface. 

Currently, questions are implemented as `DrupalNodes` with tags marking them as a `question:foo` on topic `foo`. We think this is fine, as the tagging system is robust, user-moddable without code, and quite flexible. This probably means that Questions don't need their own model, unless it simply inherits from DrupalNode but uses the same db table. 

Informally, some questions are tagged `answered` once they're answered, but currently that doesn't do anything extra -- but it could be used to mark a question as answered, or a tag like `answered:<cid>` with the comment id <cid> could be used to indicate which question caused the answer, or perhaps `answered:<uid>` for *who* answered it. 

We don't have a "voting" system for comments, which is a good idea, though I'm not familiar with acts_as_votable. [@liz](/profile/liz) or [@stevie](/profile/stevie), thoughts on the ability to vote-up a given answer?

If a student takes on the "Search/sorting" project, the Sunspot integration may be something they do, and you'd have to work with them on integration with your module. Establishing an API around the current search methods, perhaps with a Search model, would be a good way to compartmentalize this work, and some simple automated unit tests of the Search model would ensure that the other student's work would have to meet basic functionality before it was pulled in. 

For resources needed, I think you should look to the Community Development team of [@liz](/profile/liz) and [@stevie](/profile/stevie) for insights and context about how our community works and how the Q&A feature's design might support it. 

Other things that could be great add-ons for this project are some better way to alert subscribers who've signed up to answer questions on a topic, as currently we rely on the posted questions being well tagged at publication time. But if they aren't (and question askers may not be familiar with our tagging, so they may not be), there's no additional trigger for tags added later to trigger notifications. Perhaps some way to scan the question body could trigger this. 

A way to view how many questions people have **answered** is also interesting, as it may incentivize people to answer lots of questions in order to gain some kind of visible "reputation". Considering how "helpful" people are, and how that's displayed on the site, is also an exciting direction. 

Finally, I appreciate your notes on testing in your work plan. As you can probably tell, our codebase has far less automated testing than we really need, and any time spent building out our test suite is probably going to be helpful.

One more thing! There's an interesting overview of Q&A sites here: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_question-and-answer_websites which could be researched for more ideas.