---
node: Removing ambient interference from turbidity measurements through signal modulation
author: pdhixenbaugh
created_at: 2016-03-21 23:15:25 +0000
timestamp: 1458602125
nid: 12782
cid: 14008
uid: 459085
---



[pdhixenbaugh](../profile/pdhixenbaugh) replying to: [Removing ambient interference from turbidity measurements through signal modulation](../notes/donblair/03-08-2016/removing-ambient-background-light-from-turbidity-measurements-through-signal-modulation)

----
I need a little help understanding this background. When you modulate the LED at 1 kHz, that means it's flashing on and off 1000 times a second? How fast does the photodiode respond to stimuli with a measurable signal? Is the photodiode also looking for a signal occurring at the modulating frequency, and if so, how is the band-pass filter helping it do that? How is it producing false readings at harmonics of the modulating frequency with a square wave, but not a sine wave?

It seems like from a data and power saving standpoint, the first question would be, how small and how fast are the turbidity changes you need to measure? It might be easier to work around the timing overlap issue of the LED and the sensor, if both are shining and detecting for longer periods of time. You might get away with 1 measurement every tenth of a second or slower to capture all the data anyone could use, and still faster than any type of natural ambient noise cycles I can think of (unless your stream is near streetlights - then use 100 Hz?). If someone wanted higher modulation rates to deal with suspected noise, maybe that could be an adjustable parameter, down to the range in which the timing doesn't overlap well.

If you're interested in reproducability, you could do a 'burst' of 3 or 5 measurements (at 1kHz?) every 1 second -- that way, if you don't expect turbidity to be changing that quickly, you could report the average of those 5 values as the measurement, and the error from the standard deviation.

Could you help me understand how the band-pass filter would help on the detector? Is it just filtering out higher and lower light frequencies than what you'd expect from the LED, or does it change the timing somehow?

Even if you're flashing the LED at 1000 Hz, wouldn't you still see slow arcs in intensity, say, if the sun comes out from behind a cloud, and then goes back, overwhelming the photodiode so that the LED light signal was lost in the total noise light? Or would the benefit come during the data processing stage? You'd realize that your "sunny" values were no good.

Does the turbidity meter use the photodiode's reading of "base ambient light" for any calculations or data processing? And is it using the ratio of the transmitted light to the full emitted intensity to record values?

Wow, there are too many questions for you to answer all of them. It's clear I should read your posted reference material. :)
