---
cid: 14025
node: [Rich Profile tags and improving the performance of Publiclab.org](../notes/Lalithr95/03-23-2016/rich-profile-tags-and-improving-the-performance-of-publiclab-org)
nid: 12879
created_at: 2016-03-23 16:21:39 +0000
timestamp: 1458750099
uid: 1
author: [warren](../profile/warren)
---

Hi, Lalith - sounds like a good plan. We might call the table `UserTags` to match the `User` model. 

Maybe there could be a section for designing a UI for adding the tags, building on the current tagging UI. I think it could be nice to consolidate and standardize the UI code for both tagging systems. This could involve some client side testing with Jasmine, as has been done in Spectral Workbench: https://github.com/publiclab/spectral-workbench/tree/master/spec/javascripts

An interface might involve a set of expanding forms with dropdowns for different kinds of tags, kind of like how we use a dropdown to award barnstars, even though barnstars are just uniquely formatted tagnames. This would probably involve making a new set of templates in `/app/views/profile/` or something, and a `user_tags_controller.rb`. We might want to think about a consistent and clear way to add new types of tag, starting with, say, geographic tags, but working towards, say, skills or equipment tagging.

An API on `user.add_tag()` would be nice too, which could be used to award tags for different things around the codebase, like, a person's tenth or hundredth research note, or when they answer a question (in the Q&A project).

A tagging autocomplete could also be a good project if you finish early.

[warren](../profile/warren) replying to: [Rich Profile tags and improving the performance of Publiclab.org](../notes/Lalithr95/03-23-2016/rich-profile-tags-and-improving-the-performance-of-publiclab-org)

