---
cid: 14024
node: [Internationalize publiclab.org GSoC 2016](../notes/ZhanLiangUF/03-19-2016/internationalize-publiclab-org-gsoc-2016)
nid: 12863
created_at: 2016-03-23 16:15:54 +0000
timestamp: 1458749754
uid: 468876
author: [ZhanLiangUF](../profile/ZhanLiangUF)
---

1. I think that is a good idea to use the geocoder API and by checking user's IP and setting the most suitable locale.

2. "Another question -- how does this work with JavaScript libraries that we use? I'm wondering because we're probably going to break out the editor into a separate module, in its own repository. Would it then be necessary to internationalize that independently? "

Please let me know if I am understanding your question correctly. After some researching on how to internationalize with javascript, I think that we should have a global i18n object and fill it with the correct language information and translations. The translations will be accessed through a function and if there is a translation it will be used but if not it will default back to english, which is ideal if we are behind in translations. Also because each languages have different word orders, we will need to keep coherent string together.Since Javascript doesn't have "sprintf function"-slots variable into place within the string; we will have to write out own.


4. Okay, what do you mean by "very small change", I am currently working on a group iOS project so I am comfortable working with pull requests. 

5. I agree that it is a big project, but I think we can do more than just the headers, for example I think we can change the menu items on the main page and set them accordingly using the Geocoder gem. 

[ZhanLiangUF](../profile/ZhanLiangUF) replying to: [Internationalize publiclab.org GSoC 2016](../notes/ZhanLiangUF/03-19-2016/internationalize-publiclab-org-gsoc-2016)

