---
cid: 14044
node: [Using Mobius camera as a "trap cam" in field deployments](../notes/tonyc/03-22-2016/using-mobius-camera-as-a-trap-cam-in-field-deployments)
nid: 12876
created_at: 2016-03-24 21:09:53 +0000
timestamp: 1458853793
uid: 43651
author: [donblair](../profile/donblair)
---

> The new firmware has a hibernate function, so you don't need to do this. You just let the mobius turn itself on and off, and let your additional power trickle charge when needed. That's the idea at least. In application, I'm having issues.

Cool! I mean -- sorry re: the issues :)  But this is a neat feature.  

> There is a setting in the firmware that lets you have the camera power on automatically with USB power applied, and also to have it autorecord once power is applied. Both of these are features for people wanting a dash cam in their car (turn on the car, camera is recording, turn it off, it stops).

Wow -- this is precisely what I'd hope for :)  Basically, what I'm imagining is the following scenario:  

- Let's say we wanted to take a photo of a river when we think it's turbid (because another sensor tells us so).  I would set up a microcontroller with a turbidity sensor so that when it senses 'high turbidity', it provides power to the Mobius; the Mobius takes a photo; and then the microcontroller turns off power to the Mobius.  This will tend both to prolong battery life on the Mobius, and will avoid someone having to sift through 1000's of photos looking for a river that looks turbid :)  

> However, even with these settings set to not let it turn on/off with power, it still seems to do this in photo mode.

Ah ... and just so I understand:  in video mode currently, you can currently enable a feature such that when you provide power to the Mobius (turn it on) it starts recording video automatically?  But the still-photo-intervalometer doesn't seem to work the same way?  

This makes me wonder (and this is maybe only relevant to my own particular imagined scheme, above):  maybe we could control power to the Mobius in 'capture video when powered on' with a microcontroller, and capture short videos when power is provided (in lieu of photos).

For the turbidity application, for example, it might be sufficient to capture only one, clear short video that shows a very turbid river; so, even if the video file size is larger than a photo, we might only need one short video for our purposes ...



[donblair](../profile/donblair) replying to: [Using Mobius camera as a "trap cam" in field deployments](../notes/tonyc/03-22-2016/using-mobius-camera-as-a-trap-cam-in-field-deployments)

