---
node: Removing ambient interference from turbidity measurements through signal modulation
author: donblair
created_at: 2016-03-24 20:06:38 +0000
timestamp: 1458849998
nid: 12782
cid: 14042
uid: 43651
---



[donblair](../profile/donblair) replying to: [Removing ambient interference from turbidity measurements through signal modulation](../notes/donblair/03-08-2016/removing-ambient-background-light-from-turbidity-measurements-through-signal-modulation)

----
> I need a little help understanding this background. When you modulate the LED at 1 kHz, that means it's flashing on and off 1000 times a second? 

Exactly.

> How fast does the photodiode respond to stimuli with a measurable signal?

That's a great question.  I think the response of a typical photodiode is fast enough to handle 1 kHz.  I should look into this in detail, but reasons to think so:

- Currently I'm actually using a phototransistor, which I think is considered 'slow' relative to a photodiode, and it seems to be responding to the 1 kHz square wave very nicely.  
- Typical IR photodiodes used in remotes are pulsed at 32 kHz

The better way to answer this question would be to dig up some specs online about the particular photodiode or phototransistor being used.  Added this to my todo list :) 

> Is the photodiode also looking for a signal occurring at the modulating frequency, and if so, how is the band-pass filter helping it do that? 

So, my (limited) understanding of this is:  a typical band pass filter configuration allows you to specify a 'low' frequency level, f_L (below which any signal with a frequency less than f_L won't be seen) and a 'high' frequency level, f_H (above which any signal with a frequency greater than f_H won't be seen).  One then places this filter circuitry between the photodiode (which is measuring the light pulses) and before the measurement circuitry (a microcontroller's analog input, say, or an oscilloscope), in order to implement this effect.  

> How is it producing false readings at harmonics of the modulating frequency with a square wave, but not a sine wave?

This is pretty nicely explained [here](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Square_wave) -- much better than I could do, anyhow :)  In particular, look at the figure titled "Animation of the additive synthesis of a square wave with an increasing number of harmonics".  

> It seems like from a data and power saving standpoint, the first question would be, how small and how fast are the turbidity changes you need to measure? It might be easier to work around the timing overlap issue of the LED and the sensor, if both are shining and detecting for longer periods of time. You might get away with 1 measurement every tenth of a second or slower to capture all the data anyone could use, and still faster than any type of natural ambient noise cycles I can think of (unless your stream is near streetlights - then use 100 Hz?). If someone wanted higher modulation rates to deal with suspected noise, maybe that could be an adjustable parameter, down to the range in which the timing doesn't overlap well.

> If you're interested in reproducability, you could do a 'burst' of 3 or 5 measurements (at 1kHz?) every 1 second -- that way, if you don't expect turbidity to be changing that quickly, you could report the average of those 5 values as the measurement, and the error from the standard deviation.

Good questions.  I'm imagining that we could measure the turbidity in a stream every 15 minutes, or even every hour, and probably capture the sort of information that we're interested in.  Each measurement would then consist of this pulsed protocol -- pulse the LED at 1 kHz and measure the result -- maybe repeat that 5 or 10 times and average it. 

> Could you help me understand how the band-pass filter would help on the detector? Is it just filtering out higher and lower light frequencies than what you'd expect from the LED, or does it change the timing somehow?

Exactly -- the former -- we're exciting the water with light at a known frequency (e.g. 1 kHz) that is significantly higher than most of the interfering phenomena; measuring the light that is scattered back at us; and filtering this measurement so that we are only sensitive to light being pusled at around 1 kHz. 

> Even if you're flashing the LED at 1000 Hz, wouldn't you still see slow arcs in intensity, say, if the sun comes out from behind a cloud, and then goes back, overwhelming the photodiode so that the LED light signal was lost in the total noise light? Or would the benefit come during the data processing stage? You'd realize that your "sunny" values were no good.

This is a great question.  It may be that direct sunlight will still overwhelm a photodiode, so that it is not really registering the pulses.  I may have witnessed something like this when testing with a lamp shining on the phototransistor up-close.  Need to think about this more. 

> Does the turbidity meter use the photodiode's reading of "base ambient light" for any calculations or data processing? And is it using the ratio of the transmitted light to the full emitted intensity to record values?

I was trying something like this [before](https://publiclab.org/notes/donblair/11-01-2015/turbidity-sensor-prototype), and taking a base reading might still be a good idea, in the manner you describe.  If we measure with the band pass filter in place, it would at least tell us whether our decision as to a frequency range that won't exhibit interference was a good one ... 

> Wow, there are too many questions for you to answer all of them. It's clear I should read your posted reference material. :)

Please do read the reference material, and explain it further to me! :)

