---
node: Removing ambient interference from turbidity measurements through signal modulation
author: pdhixenbaugh
created_at: 2016-03-25 17:12:58 +0000
timestamp: 1458925978
nid: 12782
cid: 14066
uid: 459085
---



[pdhixenbaugh](../profile/pdhixenbaugh) replying to: [Removing ambient interference from turbidity measurements through signal modulation](../notes/donblair/03-08-2016/removing-ambient-background-light-from-turbidity-measurements-through-signal-modulation)

----
I'll do what I can :D it might be good weekend reading. So take everything that follows from the perspective of me not knowing much about measuring turbidity...

If I'm understanding right, using the filter will help the detector record data only when the LED is shining - this is definitely useful!

>We're exciting the water with light at a known frequency (e.g. 1 kHz) that is significantly higher than most of the interfering phenomena; measuring the light that is scattered back at us; and filtering this measurement so that we are only sensitive to light being pusled at around 1 kHz.

Great! So this filters out (by averaging the signal?) any spikes or dips in light amplitude from, say, a fluorescent light flickering at 60 Hz. The signal at 60 Hz would be overwhelmed by the average of the signal at 1 kHz, since 60 mostly doesn't line up with 1000.
 
Question about two types of frequency: can the band-pass filter hone in on the electromagnetic frequency (and wavelength) that the LED is emitting and scattering back (helping to ignore ambient light), or is it getting a reading of all light, but at the modulation frequency? 

If the data is still be affected by any type of slow interference out there, like sunlight and clouds, whose effect would be present during all bursts, how is that handled? Is the ambient-light reading, or opaque enclosure the only way to mitigate those? An enclosure might be something to avoid, if only to avoid having to maintain it frequently in the field, by cleaning out stream debris.

Last, are the accuracy and precision goals of this turbidity sensor still to measure and detect gross changes in turbidity, like from a pollution event, or to get turbidity readings that could be used by regulators or scientists?

Thanks :D