---
node: TTL Serial JPEG Cameras + microcontrollers
author: donblair
created_at: 2016-03-26 15:49:51 +0000
timestamp: 1459007391
nid: 12880
cid: 14076
uid: 43651
---



[donblair](../profile/donblair) replying to: [TTL Serial JPEG Cameras + microcontrollers](../notes/donblair/03-23-2016/ttl-serial-jpeg-cameras-microcontrollers)

----
[@cfastie](/profile/cfastie):

Power estimates are next on my list :) Looks like I should be able to switch off power to the camera completely using the microcontroller, so it will be in 'dead' mode, rather than 'sleep' mode, between usages.  My (shot-in-the-dark) guess is that the TTL camera will be less power-hungry than a point-and-shoot -- just because it seems like a simpler device.  The lens extend / retract mechanism on a PowerShot must take some significant battery juice (though maybe it's possible to disable that).

Not yet sure if I can disable the IR LEDs -- don't see any related code in the Adafruit library.  Might try and see if I can pry apart the camera and disable the LEDs more directly. Can you forsee any use for them?

@ warren:

Re: pixel-level data -- not sure.  The microcontroller is communicating with the camera on a byte-by-byte level, and assembling these bytes straightforwardly into a JPEG file that is stored on the SD card -- so, I think we could access pixels, if we knew how the encoding worked?  The relevant microcontroller code is here:

https://github.com/adafruit/Adafruit-VC0706-Serial-Camera-Library/blob/master/Adafruit_VC0706.cpp

For what it's worth, there's a python script that can also communicate with the camera, which might be fairly legible to folks:  

https://github.com/adafruit/Adafruit-VC0706-Serial-Camera-Library/blob/master/getimage0706.py

-- and I am indeed worried that I seem utterly creepy as I perform these tests on the camera pointing it outside my bedroom window.  On the other hand, construction workers on the house next door start working very, very loudly at 6AM, and I'm sort of hoping *they* get very, very creeped out. 