---
node: A Homemade Cost Effective Raman Spectrometer with High Performance
author: emontoya57
created_at: 2016-03-28 19:08:29 +0000
timestamp: 1459192109
nid: 12522
cid: 14082
uid: 422031
---



[emontoya57](../profile/emontoya57) replying to: [A Homemade Cost Effective Raman Spectrometer with High Performance](../notes/emontoya57/12-16-2015/a-homemade-cost-effective-raman-spectrometer-with-high-performance)

----
Dear David, At the begining we also tried the right angle geometry but we only got spectra of very weak intensity, even after five or ten minutes exposure and we learned that in those long exposures the CMOS array detector chip of the camera warms up and the noise was really annoying. Then we tried to cool the chip putting a Peltier setup as near as possible of the chip (in the external side of the camera) and the noise diminished something but then we had got water inside the camera (air humidity condensation) and we almost lost the camera. Then we said Ok, lets try transmission mode (and forget about opaque solid samples) and tried to block the direct laser light from the pointer with a very small (about 2 mm diameter) plane mirror but again the recorded spectra was of pretty low intensity. Then we tried the otherway, replacing the blocking mirror with an about 2 mm aperture (diafragm). Then we had the hypothesis of that along the light line there are many light dispersing points and we were collecting just the photons (Laser, Raman, fluorescence,...) that travel along that direction. As it is shown in the figures of the paper, the recorde spectra have a nice good intensity with relatively short exposures. Of course, we are pointing directly the expensive OD 6 Raman edge filter and probaly it will not survive a long time and also an appreciably part of the laser light reaches the camera and causes a nasty background edge in the zone of low Raman shifts. We believe (we have not yet time to try it) that the results could be better by increasing a lot the optical light path of the laser inside the sample.

I hope that the information would be useful. Please not hesitate in take contact for further discussions.

Best regards,

Eduardo.