---
node: Raspberry + NoIR cam + Sensors to detect water stress of the plants during their growing
author: cfastie
created_at: 2016-04-03 04:26:18 +0000
timestamp: 1459657578
nid: 12900
cid: 14095
uid: 554
---



[cfastie](../profile/cfastie) replying to: [Raspberry + NoIR cam + Sensors to detect water stress of the plants during their growing](../notes/LaPa/03-31-2016/raspberry-noir-cam-sensors-to-detect-water-stress-of-the-plants-during-their-growing)

----
Hi LaPa,

Your time-lapse videos are impressive. These are excellent teaching videos. You can clearly see that the NDVI values for the foliage of the plants changes dramatically through the day. It is likely that these changes are not due to physiological changes in the plant (stress, growth, productivity), but instead to changes in the ambient light and/or camera settings. There are probably also changes in the plant health during these periods of time, but they are too subtle to see. These changes in plant health might produce a change in NDVI of maybe 0.05 or 0.1 or so if the plant was stressed by heat or drought. The color gradients you used have approximately the same color for NDVI values of (e.g.) 0.4 and 0.45, so the color of a plant leaf might not change much if it was actually stressed. 

To allow a video like these to show plant stress, a few things must happen:

1. the ambient light must be constant or nearly constant (brightness, color) for the entire video, 
2. the camera must use the same settings when each frame is captured,
3. if numbers 1 and 2 are not true, then each frame must be calibrated,
3. the color gradient used (lut) must have different colors for NDVI values of stressed and unstressed foliage.

There are not enough colors to differentiate all the NDVI values between 0.2 and 0.8 with enough resolution to detect small changes in plant health. So a special lut could be used to differentiate changes in NDVI between (e.g.) 0.5 and 0.3 using all the obvious colors.

Chris
