---
node: Fluorescein as a gain medium regent here at Plab
author: dhaffnersr
created_at: 2016-04-12 22:41:35 +0000
timestamp: 1460500895
nid: 12926
cid: 14206
uid: 461120
---



[dhaffnersr](../profile/dhaffnersr) replying to: [Fluorescein as a gain medium regent here at Plab](../notes/dhaffnersr/04-06-2016/fluorescein-as-a-gain-medium-regent-here-at-plab)

----


1)Ah, is sodium bicarbonate just baking soda?
2)Cool -- what's the purpose of a gain medium, i.e. what's the purpose of the baking soda?
3)Where do you get fluorescein?
4)Are you using fluorescein in combination with baking soda as your reagent, or do they play different roles?
5)how did you choose to use baking soda?
6)If I understand, you're hoping the reagent will bind with oils so that they fluoresce more strongly, right?
7)But this might destroy information about the type of oil, at the benefit of making a test for any oil more sensitive, correct?
8)How do we know that the reagent is binding with oil pollutants -- what else does it bind with?

answers:

1) typo on my part, NaOH3 is ammonium nitrate, NaHCO3 is baking soda, sorry my mistake. I will have to correct that on my data graphs. Yes, it's just baking soda. 

2) The purpose of a gain medium is for laser "tuning," Fluorescein in a pH of 9.0 has an  excitation at:490 nm and an emission at:514 nm, knowing this information I can use an appropriate excitation wavelength for emission maxima. it also helps knowing the excitation wavelengths of the samples, hence the utilization of differing dyes. The baking soda is merely for raising the pH level (hydrogen molecule transfer,) in the solution.

3) this is where I got my fluorescien from- http://www.hvchemical.com/?gclid=CKS5waTticwCFZaEaQodhaQFTQ

4) Yes I am using both baking soda and sodium hydroxide as a regent, they both play the same role.

5) I chose baking soda as an experimental pH buffer.

6) Yes, I am working that problem out, I have a software program called Chemsketch, where I can edit and manipulate any chemical structure I want, I am hoping that I can use some of these dyes, especially fluorescein as more than just a gain medium and more of a tracer agent, which I would need it to bond to certain organic molecules in order to use it in that manner, I think it is possible.

7) No, fluorescein will not interfere with any samples chemical data structure.

8) You would know that bonding has occurred when you process the data, as a fluorescent amplifier, you would notice a closer molecular migration of the 2 elements on the data graph, both in absorption and concentration. 

I hope this helped explain things, at least a little. Please don't hesitate to ask questions, I am more than happy to answer them. 