---
cid: 14230
node: [Call for input on upcoming Rich Editor and Rich Wiki projects for PublicLab.org](../notes/warren/04-13-2016/call-for-input-on-upcoming-rich-editor-and-rich-wiki-projects-for-publiclab-org)
nid: 12969
created_at: 2016-04-14 11:27:12 +0000
timestamp: 1460633232
uid: 468990
author: [viechdokter](../profile/viechdokter)
---

Hi Warren,

this is great news. As a newby with the PLab spectrometry I find it still a bit difficult to navigate on the spectrometry pages. (Where do I find the "Write a research note" button? Where are the spectra? Sometimes when I go to my dashboard I see the last spectra but the site seems unable to load the latest research notes... 

Also the spectrum tools page is a bit confusing for a beginner. Its all there but its not always easy to find and to know how to use it without reading the manual. Perhaps a new outfit with a standard menue (notes, spectra, tools, capture interface...) that appears on ALL pages at the same place and a more intuitively usable tools page would be great. I am not sure if the webspace provider software is limiting the graphic design possibilities of the pages but if not I could try to help to design something that others could put into proper code... 

And another proposal: on the capture page you see the spectrum in real time (camera picture) but it would be nice to have the waterfall and real time curve picture there as well to see how the changes in the cross section line affect the resulting curves without having to go back and forth between the pages. And it would be even cooler if the camera picture there  would be bigger so that it will be easier to find the best cross section. (My mouse hand motorics aren't so precise, you know?)

I hope this helps on your quest to improve things. I still think this is an absolutely great community here!

[viechdokter](../profile/viechdokter) replying to: [Call for input on upcoming Rich Editor and Rich Wiki projects for PublicLab.org](../notes/warren/04-13-2016/call-for-input-on-upcoming-rich-editor-and-rich-wiki-projects-for-publiclab-org)

