---
node: Questions: Balloon size and balloon mappers in Sheffield, UK
author: lionfish
created_at: 2016-04-15 19:26:08 +0000
timestamp: 1460748368
nid: 12981
cid: 14267
uid: 470457
---



[lionfish](../profile/lionfish) replying to: [Questions: Balloon size and balloon mappers in Sheffield, UK](../notes/lionfish/04-15-2016/questions-balloon-size-and-balloon-mappers-in-sheffield-uk)

----
Thanks cfastie and stevie.
[@stevie](/profile/stevie): I feel I've not put enough detail in yet to explain how it works: I'll make a new note to explain it properly when I've actually flown it.

[@cfastie](/profile/cfastie): Thanks for this brilliant post!

Really useful info - good question about the balloon strength: there's not much info to let us compare balloons.

You gave especially useful info about the line, on the basis of your message:
- I've cancelled the reel order on Amazon.
- I'm thinking this looks more promising: http://www.ebay.co.uk/itm/301394084365?var=600368435007 it's described as Dacron Polyester Braided Line. The 110lb one is £18 for 300m, 165lb is £35 for 300m. Length: I'm not sure how high it could go - as I've no idea really what range might work, but I'm thinking of at least allowing for the possibility of going over 150m would be good (as the lines are at an angle, over 200m of line might be needed, so 300m is an ok length). Which strength is ok? The publiclab one is 110lb, so I guess that's adequate? Also the stronger one is I guess heavier - but I couldn't see a weight. So I'll go for three reels of the 300m 110lbs line.

Sorry I'm not buying straight from PublicLab - I'm too impatient to wait for intl shipping :)

Finally (for now): I need some reel winders, I've had a look on amazon, and there's quite mixed reviews - also most of them seem to be for children! Do you have any recommendations?

Thanks again for all the help!

I'll do a full explanation of the design/experiment when I've got it working a bit more.

The two camera flashes have arrived today. I'm also going to look at how to power the camera with external batteries. Will rig four canon batteries in parallel (carefully - ensure same batch/charge/etc before I do that) and build a 'fake battery' to put in the camera to get the power to the battery pins. Bit of a pain, but found that the onboard flash runs it down quite quickly, and I might want it up for a few hours.