---
node: Spectrometer Stability
author: stoft
created_at: 2016-04-15 17:31:19 +0000
timestamp: 1460741479
nid: 12973
cid: 14264
uid: 54025
---



[stoft](../profile/stoft) replying to: [Spectrometer Stability](../notes/stoft/04-14-2016/spectrometer-stability)

----
Jeff; I'm glad I was clear. The mechanics is like the rest; it starts with the objective / spec that it is an optical device. That immediately rules out paper and Velcro where the optical components are not rigidly connected, but instead, were mechanically isolated from each other. Once the slit, diffraction grating and sensor are "tied together", then can you ask 'how well'. I would argue that that assembly should be free of internal shift with casual handling: 1) playing with the USB cable should have no effect on the signal, 2) zero flexure for up to at least 1 lb of pressure, 3) signal stability, while hand-held, should be as good as the handler is stable.

As to how to measure this, I'd suggest a real-time display of say a green peak from a stable lamp where the display is a live 3-5 point running average of that peak's value, plotted not to show the absolute value, but the difference from the 'norm' so as to observe drift. The analogy is an oscilloscope. Then, handle the device and watch for correlations between the mechanical and the signal change -- which should be rock solid relative to the mechanical mounting of the optical components and the USB cable.

As for materials, yes maple is a nice wood but I wouldn't rule out wood as a material as it can be inexpensive to cut in volume,  provides rigidity when glued, can easily be light-tight and could be easy to ship a pile of pieces to assemble where the mechanical tolerances are good enough to assure accurate assembly. As for acrylic, when thick enough it is rigid but it does require at least laser cutting for accuracy and even the black isn't really light-tight by itself (based on my initial black acrylic housing I assembled as a replacement proto for the first PLab spectrometer), and the typically shiny surfaces are also very reflective so must be the covered with flat black paper, etc.  This is not to say which material is best, at this point, but it does highlight the need for many 'thought experiments' to consider all the angles.
