---
node: Questions: Balloon size and balloon mappers in Sheffield, UK
author: cfastie
created_at: 2016-04-15 14:42:00 +0000
timestamp: 1460731320
nid: 12981
cid: 14262
uid: 554
---



[cfastie](../profile/cfastie) replying to: [Questions: Balloon size and balloon mappers in Sheffield, UK](../notes/lionfish/04-15-2016/questions-balloon-size-and-balloon-mappers-in-sheffield-uk)

----
This all looks like a lot of fun. I'm sure the bumblebees are very excited as well.

The balloon looks great. It looks like a larger version of the 5.5 foot balloon used by Public Lab folks. It doesn't say how thick the chloroprene is. If it is similar to the 5.5 foot balloons, that might make it a bit more fragile when fully inflated. But maybe the chloroprene is thicker. If one knew math one could figure that out from the size and weight of the balloons (8 foot diameter and 600 grams vs 5.5 foot diameter and ??? grams). So maybe I will never know.

The lift from that balloon fully inflated (8 foot diam.) with pure He should be almost 8 kg. So you should be good to go with it inflated to about 6 feet diameter. A handy lift table is here: http://www.chem.hawaii.edu/uham/lift.html 

Balloons usually pop when they touch something (trees or buildings) or while they are being inflated. A new balloon inflated to under it's recommended limit and flown away from obstacles will generally not pop.

That braided line looks a little fishy. There is no indication what material the line is made from. 80 pound test line is probably strong enough because you will have three lines, but it might be minimal. Without more information about the line I would be worried. That big balloon will pull hard if a little wind comes up, so I would recommend three tethers of 100 to 150 pound test of braided polyester (e.g. Dacron). You don't need to counteract 300 pounds of lift, but better line gives you more tolerance for knicks, abrasions, weak knots, and one or more lines failing some other way. Don't forget gloves for the line handlers.

A simple pendulum suspension might be more effective than a Picavet. It depends on the angle of the lines and how variable that angle will be.

Filling and launching a 5.5 foot balloon is not hard with a few people to help. It is not hard to hold onto, although it is important that everyone involved remember not to let go. You will have twice the lift and a bigger target for wind, so it will be harder to hold onto, but probably doable. A net is a good idea but it has to be very soft so it doesn't damage the balloon which is quite fragile when inflated.

I can't wait to get the bumblebees' side of this story.

Chris  
[The KAPtery](http://kaptery.com/)