---
cid: 14273
node: [Thinking about a more stable spectrometer...](../notes/viechdokter/04-15-2016/thinking-about-a-more-stable-spectrometer)
nid: 12986
created_at: 2016-04-15 23:50:13 +0000
timestamp: 1460764213
uid: 54025
author: [stoft](../profile/stoft)
---

Hmmm... a few counter thoughts.

1) To match the camera optics with the grating to keep the spectral band spread across the pixels seems to require (this is what I've found best) the grating to sit flush with the camera -- the parallel grating and camera thus mounted at 45-deg to the optical path to the slit.
2) This also helps the design as the slit is then in-line with the 45-deg grating / camera module, which is thus inline over the longer dimension of the spectrometer.
3) I frequently have laser-cut acrylics made, in lots of several hundred, and the simplest ones are still about $3.50 each -- the process is not cheap. Keep the thought-experiments open ......
4) The internals ARE still the problem as that is what provides the optical path stability -- much more than the cover. So, I see Jeff's perspective as reversed. The cover could be paper (perhaps....) but the internals are the critical part.
5) The slit needs to be replaceable but, when mounted, very stable.
6) The slit to grating / camera distance is where the flexure is greatest.
7) First, mount the grating to the camera as in integral sub-assembly. This keeps that optical relationship stable. This is a necessity because we are talking angstroms, pixels and nm.
7a) I tried using the holographic diffraction gratings mounted on 35mm slide frames. The finer line width was not helpful with the 640x480 camera and the film is much too flexible. The DVD may not be very sexy, but it's rigid construction is an inherent advantage -- and the line density is more than enough.
8) Then, mount that sub-assembly (rigid, like glue it) to a bottom base-plate frame which is thicker to maintain it's stiffness when supporting the slit.
9) Mount the slit-holder to the other end of the base-plate (i.e. glue it). The result should not show flexure which would alter the optical path.
10) Add a mechanical de-coupling loop in the USB cable (between camera and where it exits the housing) and strain-relief the cable to the base-plate (not the housing!) before exit.
11) After all of this, then provide a light-tight covering. In my proto, I used a sheet of black paper, bent in a U-channel.
12) Finally, all of that could be placed in a user-friendly "shell" with Logo -- though still, the internal base-plate needs to be 'attached' mechanically to the 'base' of the shell because the shell is what the user will handle or mount.

Hope this adds some clarity.


[stoft](../profile/stoft) replying to: [Thinking about a more stable spectrometer...](../notes/viechdokter/04-15-2016/thinking-about-a-more-stable-spectrometer)

