---
node: Thinking about a more stable spectrometer...
author: warren
created_at: 2016-04-16 20:53:10 +0000
timestamp: 1460839990
nid: 12986
cid: 14296
uid: 1
---



[warren](../profile/warren) replying to: [Thinking about a more stable spectrometer...](../notes/viechdokter/04-15-2016/thinking-about-a-more-stable-spectrometer)

----
> I frequently have laser-cut acrylics made, in lots of several hundred, and the simplest ones are still about $3.50 each -- the process is not cheap.

Thanks, Dave - actually, that sounds reasonably cheap vs. quotes we get for wood manufacturing, but I wonder if you'd be willing to share where you get acrylic cut, and/or if you know of places that do affordable wood manufacturing?

I've been starting to think of a possible design in three parts: 

1. rigid base-and-optics interior
2. paper housing for light
3. rigid exterior

I think the rigid interior could be built inside the existing device, and a pretty affordable exterior enclosure could fit outside. Obviously we could simplify the paper if it's just light-blocking, but I'd like to keep thinking about how new designs could be upgraded-to by folks who have the current kit. Not a hard constraint, but unless there's a solid reason to abandon that as a constraint, it's nice to have. 

So, I was thinking -- could we post a "spec for the spec" as a kind of challenge -- using the steps Dave [outlined in the comments on his post a couple days ago](/notes/stoft/04-14-2016/spectrometer-stability#c14264). That is, whatever designs people post (and/or collaborate on) would have to be run through a simple test, and to meet these specific empirical specs, to "pass" as a design. Another constraint could of course be cost, though we can pool resources/knowledge on manufacturing processes and vendors to keep that low. 

If you're interested, it'd be nice if [@stoft](/profile/stoft) could post it, since he enumerated the "first draft" of the specs. We could iterate on the specs as well, of course, and I'm happy to post it as well. I think it'd need a clear "testing methodology" that people could follow, and a numbered set of "specs" it'd have to meet. Thoughts?