---
node: Thinking about a more stable spectrometer...
author: stoft
created_at: 2016-04-16 21:37:32 +0000
timestamp: 1460842652
nid: 12986
cid: 14300
uid: 54025
---



[stoft](../profile/stoft) replying to: [Thinking about a more stable spectrometer...](../notes/viechdokter/04-15-2016/thinking-about-a-more-stable-spectrometer)

----
Jeff, I have a local supplier call Tap Plastics but I assume laser-cut plastics are now available in most metropolitan areas.

Ok, that's fine to keep the previous version in mind. In fact, my basic proto spectrometer module does fit that paper housing. I just abandoned it when I discovered there are simpler ways to cover and there remained the issue that that paper housing decoupled the base optics from the user's mounting -- i.e. the user can hold / mount the paper but that doesn't actually control the mechanics of the base optics. That ends up adding mechanical motion to the optics which is only indirectly related to the housing. Sorry, but there is just no substitute for rigid mounting -- either it is or it is not.

Yes, the idea of a measurement reference test is a good one. Actually, I'd previously suggested that a CFL signature might form such a reference. While I'm not finished decoding the SWB 'quality' rating code and implementing some comparative testing, I don't think that value is the correct one. I think a check of several specific factors of a CFL signature might provide better analysis of spectrometer performance -- like how well the double-green peak is resolved. That said, I'd still suggest that work on both such a qualification test and work on a replacement product design continue together. Many design concepts can be analyzed just through thought experiments w/o building hardware or involved testing. In parallel, if users are to be able to test and qualify their spectrometers, than those algorithms need to be implemented in whatever software is commonly available -- SWB for now it seems.

I'd suggest 3 things are required: 1) a list of what is to be tested and the basis of the criteria for passing the tests, 2) three lists of specifications, a) the measured (so far) spec limits under the best of conditions and b) the specs that we'd expect a product to pass in the hands of the user and c) a slightly tighter manufacturing spec (i.e. a 'professionally built kit will pass'), and 3) a set of specs the mechanical design must meet and the reasons those specs were selected (eg, materials cost, assembly tools, rigidity, light-tight qualities, assembly compatibility, legacy options, modularity (i.e. adaptability for an OTK, etc.). Should also keep in mind that some might be willing to pay extra to get a fully assembled version.

Might need 3 dedicated spaces for these topics to evolve.
