---
node: Evaluating low-cost optical dust sensors
author: philrosenberg
created_at: 2016-04-19 19:27:11 +0000
timestamp: 1461094031
nid: 11783
cid: 14336
uid: 469426
---



[philrosenberg](../profile/philrosenberg) replying to: [Evaluating low-cost optical dust sensors](../notes/mathew/05-05-2015/evaluating-low-cost-optical-dust-sensors)

----
[@marlokeno](/profile/marlokeno)
Your questions are very good ones. I do not know the details about this instruments, but I do know details based on research grade equipment. In a number of ways the output from these instruments may be so uncertain that these are not important.

However, in research grade equipment yes we worry about static charge on particles causing the particles to adhere to instrument inlets and pipework. This is minimised by using electrically conductive material for pipes such as metal or conductive rubber-like material.

In high humidity you can also get growth of particles, however it is actually bigger particles that adsorb water most easily. Google for Kohler curve for more details. High end instruments dry the air before measuring particles or at least measure the relative humidity for quality control purposes or to try to correct for this effect.

Another issue that you haven't mentioned is known as inlet efficiency. Basically particles bigger than a micron or so have enough inertia that they can deviate from the streamlines of the air entering the instrument. Depending on if the wind is blowing faster or slower than the instrument is sucking and depending on the angle between the wind and the inlet this can cause large particles to be enhanced or diluted in the instrument.

However with these low cost sensors, especially those without active air movement I think that there is likely to be so many possible uncertainties that they are "calibrated" for typical conditions and if they are within a factor of a few most of the time then that's probably all they are aiming for.

There is a really good primer on some of these things at http://aerosol.ees.ufl.edu