---
node: Comment piece in Nature about peer review
author: david-days
created_at: 2016-04-21 16:41:16 +0000
timestamp: 1461256876
nid: 13010
cid: 14352
uid: 468341
---



[david-days](../profile/david-days) replying to: [Comment piece in Nature about peer review](../notes/liz/04-21-2016/comment-piece-in-nature-about-peer-review)

----
I went through this for an autonomous navigation paper that I was trying to get published.  

Because the topic (navigation for robots  in general) fell in between several distinct categories (auto industry, where self-driving cars are the rage; electrical engineering, where the nuts-and-bolts of any system lives; and computer science, which is where the theoretical basis lies), it was up in the air which field would be the best place to put the idea forward.

I had enlisted a mentor (one of my graduate school professors) to help out in getting the paper into shape (he needed to bolster his publication creds for his own career, so it was a win-win).  Being from the auto industry, he recommended we try the to narrow the paper to automotive engineering publications.

Unfortunately, what followed was months and months of chasing submission deadlines, rewriting to catch up with the topics-of-the-month for a particular conference, and no publication.  I started digging into the peer review process to figure out what was going on, and articles like this one began to pop up on my radar.

I finally decided that the peer-review route wasn't for me.  I didn't need the paper for my own career, and my former professor had several other irons in the publication fires that were going forward.  So I decided to go rogue and just push the paper up myself to researchgate.net.

That was one of the reasons I decided to get involved in PublicLab--I'm not "against" peer-reviewed publications, but I believe that a lot of good work can be done by citizen-scientists.  Someone who has an interested in basic sensor engineering, another person who loves frogs, and a third person with an interest in chemistry can all put together a data set that might tell the story of how pollution levels in a large watershed are affecting the local biosphere--all without any of the parties entering into a formal partnership.  

(This is skipping over the work that others can contribute, too:  Data/statistical analysis, collation of the results to tell a story, etc.  There are lots of ways that people with their own interest can contribute to the whole.)

A formal study would require recognition that such a thing needs to be studied, then you would have to formalize the study methods and find people willing to tie their careers (via study results) to the work and the publication.  Such a thing is possible, but very much less likely.  

It's my own view that PublicLab can fill these gaps in science, not necessarily by replacing the peer-review system, but by augmenting it.  Articles like this, I believe, identify some of the frustrations with the formal system that would be very daunting to a citizen-scientist.