---
node: Comment piece in Nature about peer review
author: viechdokter
created_at: 2016-04-21 21:25:31 +0000
timestamp: 1461273931
nid: 13010
cid: 14375
uid: 468990
---



[viechdokter](../profile/viechdokter) replying to: [Comment piece in Nature about peer review](../notes/liz/04-21-2016/comment-piece-in-nature-about-peer-review)

----
I do agree that "someone" should try to organize content into categories, but I thought that's what the tags were for? 

As for the filtering of "good" and "bad" science I do have some reservations. Perhaps you can have a basic research here where everybody takes part and then "promote" the more sophisticated papers to be reviewed by a kind of "science board". (Perhaps you can get retired professors for this?) But if you filter things right away it would 

a) scare away newbies like me who don't know much about "the real scientific practice" but might have the one or other idea or perspective to add to certain questions here in the forum

b) keep away the experienced guys from the unexperienced as the experienced guys will stay and discuss things among themselves more. The day I started here in the forum I got contact to experienced users who helped me with my first steps and I felt welcome. I browse through papers that interest me and when I don't understand something or think I might have an idea I just post a comment. Perhaps many things I say are naive. I could not go into any institiute and ask a professor about webcam noise. I would not even make it past his secretary. But here I can ask my questions and so far I got really good answers. I fear if you filter too much you might build up walls.

You know, there might have been a little boy asking the great Newton: "Why does an apple fall down but the moon doesn't?" And perhaps that little boy's question made the big guy think...