---
node: Comment piece in Nature about peer review
author: viechdokter
created_at: 2016-04-22 09:12:57 +0000
timestamp: 1461316377
nid: 13010
cid: 14406
uid: 468990
---



[viechdokter](../profile/viechdokter) replying to: [Comment piece in Nature about peer review](../notes/liz/04-21-2016/comment-piece-in-nature-about-peer-review)

----
I still wonder... if the little boy coincidentally meets Sir Newton in the garden and asks about the apple and the moon he might just get an answer (or make the genius think about it). But I don't see Sir Isaak reading a little boy's school essays on a regular base to rank them...

[@cfastie](/profile/cfastie): Your ranking proposal gives me a bit of tummy ache:

.............. a. Relevance -- to Public Lab’s mission, tools, hopes, and dreams........
If anyone ever had ranked the first scientific papers on radioactivity, semiconducting materials or even fire for relevance at that time we wouldn't have PET-scanners, computers or well-done steaks. I believe that science comes from curiosity and my curiosity can probably be of no relevance for others. But I might stumble across something that might become relevant later on. Newton, Einstein, Dirac did not "make everything up", they just put things together very clever. Things that were not sooooo relevant until then.

............b. Rigor – How convincing are the conclusions? (Sample size, good technique, logical arguments, etc)..........
I just read a note here on SWB about ethanol/NaOH dilution of fluorescein I think. I read about conjugations, about protons and so on, which was way above me. (My last school chemistry lessons I had 30 years ago.) How could any community member without such a chemistry background ever rank sample sizes and so on? My guess is, the scientifically better the papers become the less people read and understand them so ranking is not really a public thing.

..............c. Reproducibility – How well are the methods documented?................
That is a very good point. For instance, I started to put my data sheets into the research notes, so that others can re-check the data if they want to. I would love to see more photos or sketches with annotations of the setup of an experiment so I would be able to do the same experiment to see if I get the same data. That would help reproducibility a lot.

...............d. Intent – Why was this project done? For fun? For self-promotion? To make the world a better place? To contribute to the Public Lab community?................
Intent? Does that play any role here? Where would you rank the Special relativity theory then? Or what was Darwin's intent? Annoying the church? I admit that I would like to know what the intent of a researcher was when he comes up with something new, but it should not affect the ranking at all. Most science seems to be curiosity driven (on the professor level at least). Would that rank below "making the world a better place"?

................e. Legibility – Is the information accessible to the Public Lab community? Are the relevance and conclusions clearly explained?...............
Good point.

.....4. The ranking period is finite. After maybe two to four weeks, the status of the research note is locked.........
In the 3rd century before Christ the Indian mathematician Pingala invented the first dual number system. It was not relevant at that time it was not intented to please anyone or make the world a better place and with a ranking period of four weeks it would never have made it anywhere...  ;-)
I know why you want to lock things at a certain point to be able to do rankings, but I fear that the "technical issue" here stops the "flow". 

......Appeals can be made .......
Sounds like EU bureaucracy to me. You would need an appeals court or board then. BTW, how often can one user appeal against a ranking of one note?