---
cid: 14401
node: [Comment piece in Nature about peer review](../notes/liz/04-21-2016/comment-piece-in-nature-about-peer-review)
nid: 13010
created_at: 2016-04-22 02:12:45 +0000
timestamp: 1461291165
uid: 554
author: [cfastie](../profile/cfastie)
---

I had not considered legacy research notes, but I have a different view of them. Implementing some form of review has two main consequences: it separates the wheat from the chaff, and it encourages people to start making the wheat better. So dangling the prospect of research grade notes will raise the bar for some note posters. If the eventual minimum criteria for research grade notes are anything like the ones being discussed here, research note quality could blossom. With those new criteria, there may not be many old notes that qualify. 

So in a sense we are making a fresh start. However, there are certainly a handful of old notes that should be highlighted. With 20 minutes of time from 10 particular people, we can probably come up with a list of most of the old notes anybody should care about. These can just be given ad hoc approval and maybe a special label (Fine Vintage Research) and be listed and searchable with the new crop of research grade notes. Whenever someone finds another worthy note from before the ranking system, those 10 people can vote to slap the special label on it. This is the dreaded accreditation body, but it’s okay, it’s just a bunch of old research notes.


[cfastie](../profile/cfastie) replying to: [Comment piece in Nature about peer review](../notes/liz/04-21-2016/comment-piece-in-nature-about-peer-review)

