---
node: Comment piece in Nature about peer review
author: warren
created_at: 2016-04-22 15:48:35 +0000
timestamp: 1461340115
nid: 13010
cid: 14415
uid: 1
---



[warren](../profile/warren) replying to: [Comment piece in Nature about peer review](../notes/liz/04-21-2016/comment-piece-in-nature-about-peer-review)

----
> However, science (ideally) is not about feelings

I just wanted to clarify that the goal of encouraging new contributors is not in order to preserve their feelings, but -- by being welcoming and accessible -- to broaden participation and further our research. Thanks for your thoughts though, and I'm 100% in agreement that "now it's just time to organize what arrived as a result of that effort"!

> [@Liz](/profile/Liz) and [@Warren](/profile/Warren)'s morbid fear of an accreditation body.

I know you're half joking, here Chris, but it's not an irrational fear -- I think we're just pointing out an assumption some are making that there is a clear shared metric for "recognized experts" -- which I don't think is well defined in our community. The concern is not that there might be an accreditation body, but that whatever review process we do develop will be fair, empirical, transparent, and... perhaps not unduly favoring of a specific cultural or professional background? 

> rests with the Public Lab staff

Before giving the staff more privileges, we might look to the new/emerging moderators group for this sort of thing :-) -- https://publiclab.org/wiki/moderation

> can edit the research note during the ranking period

I'd like it if folks tagged/marked their work as "draft", shared early, and specifically invited comment, further opening the process, before final "publication". That would change the schedule and proposal here a bit. 

> an insider class which can throw its weight around

 I agree with Chris on the need to watch out for this. The potential negative is if that insider group is hard to get into, or un-receptive to change/criticism, or begins to rely on its insider status for legitimacy rather than empiricism/transparency/rigor. This is very related to the liz/jeff "fear" chris described :-)

One way to try to counterbalance this is if reviewers must explain their rankings publicly, and be held to a rigorous standard to support their criticisms. I.e. that it not be enough to say "that's not how it's done" or something. 

I have an idea, building on some of [@viechdokter](/profile/viechdokter)'s good points, that touches on a lot of this. What if we considered the various goals of a review process, and emphasized one in particular that's been mentioned -- that a review body would actively encourage and support good research writing and documentation. Instead of thinking of it (and structuring it as) a group solely for judging the merits of completed work, we could frame this as a group which uses structured feedback (perhaps along the lines of Chris's proposal) to provide constructive feedback for people to refine their "drafts" into more fully fledged notes. It could be called a "**publishing assistance group**" or something better-sounding but along those lines. Review assessments (and a listing of great notes) would result, but they would just be one output; a major one would be the support of new contributors in writing great, rigorous, replicable research. 