---
node: Spectrometer Noise Solution?
author: stoft
created_at: 2016-04-22 20:02:22 +0000
timestamp: 1461355342
nid: 13007
cid: 14421
uid: 54025
---



[stoft](../profile/stoft) replying to: [Spectrometer Noise Solution?](../notes/stoft/04-20-2016/spectrometer-noise-solution)

----
[@Warren](/profile/Warren), thanks for the suggestions. Take a look (above) at the two new plots which replace the one(s) you referenced. You're right, the new ones make the data easier to visualize. When I did the more simplistic plot, and discovered the nature of the noise at the peak, that led me toward other observations so that plot was sufficient to know to look elsewhere -- but the reader doesn't necessarily follow that thought trail. Matlab has very good plotting; it just takes a bit more effort and care to get the fancier plots. I'm not discovered a way to do opacity, but the 3D shaded mesh is a good alternative.

Yes, I believe the noise is all unvorrelated noise. What surprised me was that neighbor pixels, in X and in Y appeared random with respect to each other so I don't see a way to subtract anything other than looking a long-term averages and assuming it is a DC offset -- though that offset is much smaller than the noise so that error is small compared to the residual from just averaging so much noise. The biggest gain is obtained by averaging pixels in Time but NOT averaging pixels across a spectrum -- which retains fidelity of the spectra signature.

I also looked at performing a 'peak-hold' operation over time on the spectra, but, alas, that affect both signal and noise, so the calculated SNR actually goes down. Peak-Hold is used in spectrum analyzers but it is primarily of benefit when there are transcient peaks that need to be captured. That said, peak-hold could be a good feature to add -- it's just not so useful for noise reduction.