---
cid: 14511
node: [Early design ideas for the Rich Editor project](../notes/warren/04-29-2016/early-design-ideas-for-the-rich-editor-project)
nid: 13050
created_at: 2016-05-03 19:02:12 +0000
timestamp: 1462302132
uid: 54025
author: [stoft](../profile/stoft)
---

Jeff, I'd like to suggest that 'notes' have generally taken the form of either 1) "completed" sets of information or 2) focused topics of "open-ended" inquiry. One might find another basic form as well; however, all could likely be served by the same basic tools.

In [#1](/n/1), the work has largely been completed so the submission is mostly a process of careful documentation; the 'draft' is the pre-publish stage and the final doc requires review.. In [#2](/n/2), the work starts by publishing the 'draft' which forms the kernel of an in determinant project and is never classified as reviewed. A type [#2](/n/2) document might, but is not required to, end in a separate type [#1](/n/1) document being submitted. Type [#2](/n/2) remains a 'draft'; just one which has evolved. Either type could be singular or collaborative but [#1](/n/1)'s tend to be singular and [#2](/n/2)'s tend to be collaborative.

The above is describing the structure of each 'root' PLab 'field of interest'; which should be pre-defined because there's a small, finite number of them -- eg. Mapping, IR, Water, Air, Spectrometry, Oil, etc. This strongly suggests that while one PLab page might show all submitted notes (it's just one cross-sectional view of all notes - latest first for easy review), that is only a programatic view of the site which contains separate categories for each area of interest. Selecting a root topic therefore filters out most of the obviously un-related material which simplifies topic search. Yes, a programatic view option of search could provide related material.

[stoft](../profile/stoft) replying to: [Early design ideas for the Rich Editor project](../notes/warren/04-29-2016/early-design-ideas-for-the-rich-editor-project)

