---
node: Question:  Why average? And what happens to the second Green?
author: stoft
created_at: 2016-05-05 18:03:01 +0000
timestamp: 1462471381
nid: 13081
cid: 14545
uid: 54025
---



[stoft](../profile/stoft) replying to: [Question:  Why average? And what happens to the second Green?](../notes/viechdokter/05-05-2016/question-why-average-and-what-happens-to-the-second-green)

----
Right, the (R+G+B)/3 average contains all the camera can deliver. [Aside: There are, however, separate 'weighted' formulas for combining RGB to get grey-scale images from color images -- none are exact, but grey-scale isn't the same a data from non-filtered sensors.] There is the complication that the Bayer filter's transmission curves are only approximations of what the eye detects and the camera's internal conversion of it's detector sensitivity, plus Bayer curves are then processed to give a "pleasing" representation to the eye -- i.e. roughly matching the eye's sensitivity. On top of all of that, the images are jpeg encoded (DFT filtered in the frequency domain) for compression to lower the output data bandwidth. So, yes, there is a lot of information lost in the process. However, webcam noise and the 8-bit depth limit are probably an order of magnitude more degrading than effects of the Bayer + JPEG. For good digital cameras, 'raw' image data is sometimes available. Again, however, that raw data has been 'converted' from the sensor's 'raw pixel' data which is still Bayer filtered so, even with expensive digital, the data doesn't come direct from the sensor's 'raw' intensity values.