---
node: Packaged photo monitoring plugins available on the GitHub repositoy
author: cfastie
created_at: 2016-05-11 20:05:47 +0000
timestamp: 1462997147
nid: 12582
cid: 14591
uid: 554
---



[cfastie](../profile/cfastie) replying to: [Packaged photo monitoring plugins available on the GitHub repositoy](../notes/nedhorning/01-13-2016/packaged-photo-monitoring-plugins-available-on-the-github-repositoy)

----
I couldn't follow the arguments in that paper, so I don't know whether their modified NDVI formula is valid. They know the spectral sensitivity of the camera after the IR block filter was removed and the spectral curve of the filters they added, so they should be able to come up with a correction. The focus of the paper is distinguishing vegetation from soil and their corrections are driven by that goal. If you have a similar goal and the same camera and filters, their corrections might be appropriate for you. 

When you use a red filter (that blocks all blue and green light) on a full spectrum camera (e.g., RPI NoIR) the blue channel will capture mostly NIR (maybe also some UV and visible depending on the camera and filter). The blue channel is therefore highly suitable for the NIR value when calculating NDVI. 

The red channel will capture lots of the incoming red and also plenty of NIR. To estimate how much of the captured light is red, you need some information about how sensitive the red channel is to red vs. NIR in the wavelength ranges you are capturing (the ranges depend on the red filter used). Without any information you can guess that maybe 30% of the red channel brightness is due to NIR and reduce the value by that much. Some other numbers might be a good guess too.

Then you would have values for how much red light was captured in the red channel and how much NIR was captured in the blue channel. But you don't know whether the sensitivity of the blue channel to NIR was the same as the sensitivity of the red channel to red. It is almost certainly not the same. Without the spectral sensitivity data for the camera, you can guess that the red channel is three times more sensitive to red as the blue channel is to NIR, and triple the value for NIR. Or use any other value you think is reasonable.

Or you can put calibration targets of known spectral reflectivity in the photos and capture camera raw images. Then adjust the pixels for the targets until the values for red and NIR match what you know they should be for the targets and then adjust all the other pixels the same way. There is more on calibration targets [here](https://publiclab.org/notes/cfastie/05-01-2016/calibration-cogitation).

Chris
