---
cid: 1459
node: [Interest in Hidrogen Sulfide Sensing](../notes/fernandolunav/9-24-2012/interest-hidrogen-sulfide-sensing)
nid: 3989
created_at: 2012-09-25 14:54:57 +0000
timestamp: 1348584897
uid: 43553
author: [fernandolunav](../profile/fernandolunav)
---

Sara and Shannon, thanks a lot for your replies. This is the situation:  As I told you in the previous comment I started a project called "cientificamente" which principal objetive is "to be a platform for citizen creation and appropiation of science". I have created a website and I start creating relevant content for it. However I do believe the backbone of this iniciative has to be a project that involves people in a "hands-on" fashion....you know..the only way to have a real social appropiation of science is by doing it. Ok, so here is where the H2S project comes in to play, since I think it could be perfect to involve a group of enthusiast citizens in the evaluation of contamination within the city. Bogotá has 8 millon people!. I imagine I can walk through some stages  to push this from an idea to real thing happening:  

1. To Learn how to make and reproduce your strips sensors. (this includes of course field tests at some locations in Bogotá).
2. Indentifying a location or area with H2S problems where a project can take place...as Sara suggested. This is easy..since the city of Bogotá hosts one of the most polluted rivers in the world "The Bogotá river". At some point the smell of low oxidation compounds is more than evident. Here you have some links to give some background of the problem. So I think I can pick some areas and try to map the H2S levels along the river.

http://anca24canada.canalazul24.com/?p=403

http://englishproyect2012.blogspot.com/2012/06/bogota-river-pollution.html

http://bogota2011.wordpress.com/2011/02/09/touring-bogotas-very-polluted-river/ 

3. After being sure I can reproduce the strips sensors and indentyfing some potential areas for testing I can launch a challenge on the website, a challenge to involve people in testing Bogota´s river contamination and creating a map with the results.

what you think?

After reading briefly the research notes I still have some questions:

1. Have you tried the sensors for liquid samples?
2. How are you guys measuring the color intensity developed on the strip? How is a scale of color=concentration created?.

Thanks a loooooot! I am really excited about this and your help.

F. 

[fernandolunav](../profile/fernandolunav) replying to: [Interest in Hidrogen Sulfide Sensing](../notes/fernandolunav/9-24-2012/interest-hidrogen-sulfide-sensing)

