---
node: Frozen Riffle?
author: donblair
created_at: 2016-05-19 14:56:10 +0000
timestamp: 1463669770
nid: 13128
cid: 14651
uid: 43651
---



[donblair](../profile/donblair) replying to: [Frozen Riffle?](../notes/cfastie/05-19-2016/frozen-riffle)

----
Hi Chris!

This is fantastic research.  So many interesting questions coming up already via your testing. Thank you.  Riffleman!

These rechargeable lithium batteries might not do so great at low temps.  That might be why the measurement interval is skipping around.  Hypothesis: when the battery voltage fluctuates too low, the 328p (the brain of the Riffle) might not have sufficient voltage to stay on, even in sleep mode.  It powers off; but then when the voltage fluctuates back up, it powers back on.  When the temperature is falling, at first the voltage would hover very close to 'good enough' -- so it would be rebooting frequently.  At one liminal voltage, it might reboot, make a measurement, and record it to the sd card (which requires a bunch of power), die in the process, and reboot -- that might be the initial 1-second cycling you see.  Further drops in temperature drop the voltage down further, so that it can't reboot for longer periods ...  I dunno?  It'd be cool (sic) to try the same experiment with a different battery chemistry.  Don't know if this can explain all the oddness you're seeing, though.

The analog pin will just be 'floating' unless it is connecting to some input voltage -- was just thrown into the code so that if someone hooked up e.g. voltage divider output from a photocell or thermistor, or another voltage source between 0 and 3.3V, they'd have an easy place to begin ... should be commented better though :)

Regarding the RTC temperature 'step' features, it's possible that the step-like behavior is an issue with the library being used, and that we can do much better by just tweaking a line or two of code.  Edward Mallon has a great post on his research around the RTC chip (the DS3231).    See "Addendum 2014-12-06", here: 

https://edwardmallon.wordpress.com/2014/05/21/using-a-cheap-3-ds3231-rtc-at24c32-eeprom-from-ebay/

There might be some simple code to try in his post.

I'm travelling, but when I get back next week I'll try to dig in.  

It'd be particularly neat to try to hook up one of the external widgets you've got that measures temperature, to compare against the RTC .... 

Is there some way of using the virbration tilt sensor as part of a rain gauge / flow sensor?  Been thinking that could be fun.  

Bravo.