---
node: Soaring Riffle
author: donblair
created_at: 2016-06-05 16:59:12 +0000
timestamp: 1465145952
nid: 13158
cid: 14715
uid: 43651
---



[donblair](../profile/donblair) replying to: [Soaring Riffle](../notes/cfastie/06-02-2016/soaring-riffle)

----
Chris,

This is such a beautiful project! The [lapse rate](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lapse_rate) calculation is so fun to see.

Quick reactions:

- That power switch goof is annoying.  I wonder if it would be useful to run everything off a single power supply, with only one switch to worry about ...

- Nice to see that the altitude trends lined up nicely in Fig 9 after the manual correction.  Craig and I spent some time coming up with code for matching up timestamps in GPS and sensor data a while back -- might be fun to pull out the [Jupyter notebook](https://github.com/p-v-o-s/rssi-map/blob/master/timing_match.ipynb) we'd written and see if it can be applied to your data.

- The BMP180 data is disappointing -- but great job extracting everything you could from it.  One thought:  the RTC temperature sensor is encased in plastic; and the DHT22 is inside a plastic cage; but the BMP180 sensor has only that tiny inlet on the top of the chip.  I wonder if the BMP180's wild fluctuations in temperature have to do with the way that air is passing over the chip in higher winds at altitude?  Perhaps whenever the sensor gets a blast of wind directly into the inlet, it reads an erroneously low temperature?  Increased sudden air flow into the sensor could maybe 'cool off' the sensor, consistent with the pattern you're seeing. [I'm sort of making this up ... but sounds plausible, don't it?]  Does the sensor show the same variability in temperature when it's just sitting on a table inside?  If not, then maybe the temperature readings could be improved even by e.g. loosely wrapping some tape around the sensor to protect it from direct wind during flight.  The pressure readings on the device are temperature-compensated via some algorithm on the chip, so finding a way to prevent the temperature goof-ups could also make for better pressure measurements. 

- The video is incredible.  I'd love to learn the process you use to make it.