---
node: Plab v2.5 (upgrade 2) Comparison Spectra to SpexFluoroMax Spectrometer
author: stoft
created_at: 2016-06-24 18:07:07 +0000
timestamp: 1466791627
nid: 13226
cid: 14809
uid: 54025
---



[stoft](../profile/stoft) replying to: [Plab v2.5 (upgrade 2) Comparison Spectra to SpexFluoroMax Spectrometer](../notes/dhaffnersr/06-22-2016/plab-v2-5-upgrade-2-comparison-spectra-to-spexfluoromax-spectrometer)

----
[@warren](/profile/warren), [@dhaffnersr](/profile/dhaffnersr),

Last; first. I do take issue with claims of a negative "impersonal approach" when it intonates that I have not included an emotional response within a scientific discussion. While individuals do become emotional about science, science is the pursuit of truth and is not innately an emotional argument. One of the elements I try to contribute to PLab is clarity and critical thinking because scientific progress is not achieved by emotional reactions or arguments. I often dig through many layers of hypothesis and measurement anomalies before finding supportable data to publish; it is simply the process of the scientific method.

I did contribute a research note comparing LEDs and Lasers as excitation sources for use in broad-band fluorescence -- meaning the acceptance of spectral data over the BW of the PLab spectrometer. [ See: https://publiclab.org/notes/stoft/02-23-2016/405nm-led-vs-laser ] So, I am not just talking out the top of my hat.

My generalized paraphrasing of imprecise references about measurement data is just that. Authors of notes do sometimes make vague disclaimers (for instance, your word choice was: "...9nm is really not THAT far off...") without logical (clear reasoning described) support for those conclusions. In the world of measured spectra, 9nm could either be of little significance all the way to extremely significant -- it depends on what is being measured. For peak fluorescence of a test to duplicate a known reference, 9nm is significant because one would expect the peak to match the reference quite well. When it didn't, that should automatically trigger further investigation; not a dismissal of the offset. If it's a laser, 9nm is even more important; so my point still stands. When making a claim, it is necessary to prove (show basis) why it is justified -- otherwise, it should not be a claim, it should only be a hypothesis (conjecture) with more questions.

My statements about the validity of using "in-band" excitation sources for broad-band spectral data collection (the majority of the fluorescence work and discussion within PLab -- which, obviously, describes the context of PLab notes) is not dependent on specific chemistry; it simply concerns the measurement concepts. What I stated was that it is not possible to make a valid (accurate) broad-spectrum measurement of an unknown fluorescence spectral signature when using an "in-band" excitation source because the source signal obscures the data being measured. And, I pointed out that just performing a mathematical subtraction of the source spectra was invalid (inaccurate in the general case) because the resultant errors can amplify dramatically (worse as signal level drops) and raise the measurement uncertainty (inaccuracy) beyond the measurement value itself. These effects only get worse as the BW of the source becomes wider (i.e. LEDs).

This is why using a 405nm laser, which has an extremely narrow BW (<1nm) and is close to being "out-of-band" (for a detection bandwidth of 400-650nm for webcams) allows 420-650nm broadband fluorescence measurements while a 470nm LED, with an ~30nm BW, and a 532nm source do not -- because they are "in-band". Just the fact that a fluorescence signature can be measured is insufficient. Therefore, I still draw the conclusion (from the numerical values of the measurement technique) that yes, the 405nm laser is (presently) the only viable option for PLab devices to measure broadband fluorescence. [...and this even ignores the evidence that the fluorescence efficiency (source power vs fluorescence signal level) is much much lower with LEDs than lasers which also has other practical implications. ] One could argue to simple ignore all spectral data below the upper end of the excitation source's BW. However, in many cases (other than with the 405nm laser) this would cut-off a significant range of wavelength information which is critical to the measurement -- effectively making the measurement data invalid.

So, relative to the spectral fluorescence data presented and the types of fluorescence applications as described within PLab, I still believe the present broad-band measurement techniques are valid only with out-of-band excitation sources and that the 405nm laser is (presently) the only viable option.

It's in the details of the numbers ......
