---
node: Plab v2.5 (upgrade 2) Comparison Spectra to SpexFluoroMax Spectrometer
author: dhaffnersr
created_at: 2016-06-24 13:55:39 +0000
timestamp: 1466776539
nid: 13226
cid: 14807
uid: 461120
---



[dhaffnersr](../profile/dhaffnersr) replying to: [Plab v2.5 (upgrade 2) Comparison Spectra to SpexFluoroMax Spectrometer](../notes/dhaffnersr/06-22-2016/plab-v2-5-upgrade-2-comparison-spectra-to-spexfluoromax-spectrometer)

----
[@stoft](/profile/stoft), 

your quote:
"So, my suggestion is that ALL data having been taken with either 400-470nm type LEDs or with 532nm or similar sources be excluded as essentially invalid because the signal being measured is heavily contaminated by the "in-band" excitation source energy."

Hey dave, I just wanted to make sure I was clear reading this point your making here, so are you saying that ALL LED data that is used in UV-VIS spectroscopy is invalid?

And if so, can you provide a little more of your data to support that claim other than your word?

I know you cannot use LEDs in raman spectroscopy because the energy of these vibrations is often tiny. So incoming and outgoing light has almost the same energy and you need instruments with a high energy resolution to separate the two light beams. I know The light of an LED is very broad in energy, It is so broad that in my opinion you wouldn't be able to see the tiny energy difference from the vibrations, and I know that's why usually continuous lasers (and their extremely narrow energy distribution) are used for Raman spectroscopy. 

I figured these concepts out a while ago, but they still have validity in some applications, and they don't always have to be diode based technology, in the commercial arena, certain types of white light LEDs are begin used in the bio sciences because of their very low cost and reliability and longer life spans. 

A good example is in molecular biology,  DNA quantification at micro volumes and prep HPLC, (  Prep HPLC is commonly used for purifying proteins, isolating natural extracts and other routine measurements, and relies on absorption or fluorescence spectroscopy in the UV wavelength range for controlling fraction collection.) This can only be done in the ranges of UVC 200 to 280nm, UVB: 280 to 315nm.

I'm just saying that to make a blanket statement like ALL data is to be "thrown out" because you think it should be invalid because an LEDs bandwidth is much too wide, is a little much, at least there are individuals here at plab that are trying, sure they may make mistakes along the way but like everything else in life we learn from them. 

Also I have never seen anyone say this:  "the effect of the source isn't that bad" but you seemed to have implied it somehow?

And if you are going to make a statement like this:  "This is why the 405nm laser is the ONLY available option (for PLab devices) discovered so far."

Where then, is YOUR data to support such an absolute? ( I say this because you capitalized ONLY.) 

Look, I have read all your postings here at plab, you are one smart cookie, no doubt, but your interpersonal approach leaves much to be desired.
 