---
node: Plab v2.5 (upgrade 2) Comparison Spectra to SpexFluoroMax Spectrometer
author: stoft
created_at: 2016-06-23 18:39:40 +0000
timestamp: 1466707180
nid: 13226
cid: 14800
uid: 54025
---



[stoft](../profile/stoft) replying to: [Plab v2.5 (upgrade 2) Comparison Spectra to SpexFluoroMax Spectrometer](../notes/dhaffnersr/06-22-2016/plab-v2-5-upgrade-2-comparison-spectra-to-spexfluoromax-spectrometer)

----
[@warren](/profile/warren), [@dhaffnersr](/profile/dhaffnersr)

Well..... not really ..... The Raman technique requires 1) a very stable (very narrow BW) laser source and 2) a 'matched' very narrow notch filter (or pair of precision LP and HP filters) because the Raman signal is contained within a few nm of a ~470nm excitation signal's center wavelength. Raman is NOT a technique of just filtering out the excitation source's BW to look at the rest of a broad spectrum. Raman configurations require very good optics, lasers, filters, etc and are not cheap or easy to construct.

In the case of the OTK, the 405nm laser (vs UV LEDs) the laser is sufficiently narrow and is at the end of the webcam detection range such that observing the fluorescence signature past about 420nm is actually possible. Using a UV LED is problematic because its much much wider BW means the excitation signal actually becomes "in-band" for the shorter wavelengths; masking a significant part of the signal being detected. Both a 470nm LED source and a 532nm source are definitely "in-band" making them effectively useless for full-band measurements.

The argument for just "subtracting" an "in-band" source (measure just the source and performing a mathematical subtraction) isn't really valid because the degree of error 1) is dependent on the ratio of source to measured signal and 2) can be extremely large in the case of smaller signal levels (the nature of which you have no way of knowing in advance ). Even the Raman technique does not take data from the band of wavelengths comprising the excitation signal.

So, my suggestion is that ALL data having been taken with either 400-470nm type LEDs or with 532nm or similar sources be excluded as essentially invalid because the signal being measured is heavily contaminated by the "in-band" excitation source energy. Claiming anything vague like "the effect of the source isn't that bad" is neither a valid scientific disclaimer nor a valid basis for accepting the measurement data. This is why the 405nm laser is the ONLY available option (for PLab devices) discovered so far. While it might be convenient if cheap LEDs provided an easy solution, they don't. These types of measurements are not trivial and overlooking the details can easily invalidate every measurement.