---
node: Plab v2.5 (upgrade 2) Comparison Spectra to SpexFluoroMax Spectrometer
author: stoft
created_at: 2016-06-24 23:25:09 +0000
timestamp: 1466810709
nid: 13226
cid: 14816
uid: 54025
---



[stoft](../profile/stoft) replying to: [Plab v2.5 (upgrade 2) Comparison Spectra to SpexFluoroMax Spectrometer](../notes/dhaffnersr/06-22-2016/plab-v2-5-upgrade-2-comparison-spectra-to-spexfluoromax-spectrometer)

----
Light sources are both a challenge and the key for many aspects of spectrometer applications. I'd suggest that a "universal light source" isn't an applicable concept. Instead, I'd suggest narrow-band or wide-band for most applications suggested for the PLab devices.

Specific excitation for fluorescence: LEDs are interesting, cheap, have a variety of wavelengths but are less stable than lasers (close-in phase noise), are generally not coherent and are NOT wavelength tunable. Lasers are much more stable (wavelength), coherent and provide much higher spot-intensities. There are some special tunable lasers (a stable laser passes through a crystal which tunes the shifted-wavelength output as I recall -- very expensive stuff). In general, these need to be "out-of-band" for fluorescence.

Broadband illumination: These would be sources which are intended to produce uniform intensity over a broad wavelength range (i,.e. the range of the spectrometer. They would provide illumination for both intensity calibration and, after, for absorption and reflection measurements. The best I've found has been the Solux 4700K halogen.

A third, specific class, of illumination could be for single-wavelength absorption or reflection measurements. I don't know what applications fit this category for the PLab device, but LEDs might fill this specific niche if they produced sufficient intensity for that application.

Right. I've published many notes on measurement parameters of the PLab-3 class of spectrometer but PLab has not yet attempted to establish a well-defined and well-characterized 3.0+ device.

Right, experimenting is valuable; the key is to be rigorous about what's real and what is just an anomaly, what can be justified by data and keeping hypothesis separate from fact unless the link between the two can be fully explained and supported. Experimenting with a cheap alternative is fine, but a measurement technique must be proven viable before cost is a factor; i.e. something could be very cheap, but if it doesn't meet the measurement requirements, cheap doesn't matter. If something works, but costs a bit, at least it is a viable method -- and a cheaper alternative might be found -- which must then be compared against the more expensive method which was proven accurate. You could get lucky and find cheap AND accurate at the same time -- one single step -- but accurate and meeting the measurement goals cannot play second fiddle to just being cheap.


