---
node: Plab v2.5 (upgrade 2) Comparison Spectra to SpexFluoroMax Spectrometer
author: stoft
created_at: 2016-06-25 23:21:51 +0000
timestamp: 1466896911
nid: 13226
cid: 14824
uid: 54025
---



[stoft](../profile/stoft) replying to: [Plab v2.5 (upgrade 2) Comparison Spectra to SpexFluoroMax Spectrometer](../notes/dhaffnersr/06-22-2016/plab-v2-5-upgrade-2-comparison-spectra-to-spexfluoromax-spectrometer)

----
[@dhaffnersr](/profile/dhaffnersr), [@warren](/profile/warren)

The proposal (above) was for " ...concept for a tunable LED, it is based on a bi-color led, the red and green type, instead it is sandwiched with all 3 primary colors ( red,blue and green) it can then be tuned within a given range by selecting their operating drive current in order to obtain a precise wavelength...." Technically, this is simply incorrect for the reasons I described.

The first link just posted, is for quite a different device with thousands of custom-tuned, individually controlled LED chips on a single substrate to achieve overlapping individual spectra. The second link is for a range of LED products with a range of wavelengths and none of those (even the white light versions) appear to have a broad-band emission curve. This is why I still suggest that a Solux 4700K halogen lamp is one of the best options for a practical broadband source for use with PLab devices. I have never said that high-power thousand-LED array devices will not eventually be available and at an affordable price; but that might take a while ......

It is unfortunate that what I write is not always more carefully read and I do believe that my contributed notes stand as evidence that I have been pushing the envelope on many design aspects of the PLab spectrometer.

It is also unfortunate that simply observing the technical challenges from a more abstract perspective (which makes issues, limitations and challenges more obvious, and sometimes shows them to be impractical or in error)  is labeled as a "defeatist attitude".

I've issued no personal attacks and I have only commented on the technical issues related to the topic and proposed ideas where I have knowledge to do so in a way which can communicate the reasons behind the comments. Personal attacks are inappropriate here and I have limited time resources.
