---
node: Plab v2.5 (upgrade 2) Comparison Spectra to SpexFluoroMax Spectrometer
author: stoft
created_at: 2016-06-25 19:29:45 +0000
timestamp: 1466882985
nid: 13226
cid: 14821
uid: 54025
---



[stoft](../profile/stoft) replying to: [Plab v2.5 (upgrade 2) Comparison Spectra to SpexFluoroMax Spectrometer](../notes/dhaffnersr/06-22-2016/plab-v2-5-upgrade-2-comparison-spectra-to-spexfluoromax-spectrometer)

----
Nope .... each LED has it's own "narrow" (~30nm) BW and so the red, grn and blue LED spectra are all independent - they don't mix and they don't influence each other and they don't combine to form any single different spectrum. Also, because they are not spatially located in the same "spot" and because they will each have a different efficiency and different BW, they are not easily "interchangeable".

LED vs laser power density is also a problem. LEDs are roughly 1% efficency devices with typically a 30-deg beam spread which means a 5V, 500mA max USB port can supply 2.5W (at max overload -- generally one should never expect to pull more than about 250mA from a USB port and some ports on some devices may not deliver that -- it is bad to risk user's hardware). So, this leaves only ~25mW at the diode die surface (of say 1mm area) which is then spread to something like 1cm-sq which is again just 1% of the LEDs output energy density; or just 0.25mW of optical power in the cuvette (in a 1mm "beam diameter". A 405nm 5mW laser, with ~1mm beam diameter is therefore inherently about 40x the energy density of the high-power LED.

While these numbers are all rough approximations, the order of magnitude of the effect easily explains why everyone has had such a difficult time getting enough intensity from LEDs as compared with the laser. My experience with testing [@warren](/profile/warren) 's blue LED was no different -- detectable, but very poor SNR.

The reason energy density maters, is because the spectrometer is designed to observe only a very small area of light (remember, it is a pseudo-collimated design based on a narrow slit). Therefore, the spectrometer can only "see" a very tiny window of light (i.e. fluorescence). So, even though the entire cuvette is "glowing", only the photons from a small area of the fluid, are being emitted directly inline with the spectrometer's optical path and will be detected by the camera sensor. Therefore, what is required is high energy density and a very good, stable spectrometer alignment on that small region where the laser is exciting the test fluid with maximum energy density.

Attempting to construct an accurate comparative measurement of a broad BW fluorescence reference curve requires duplicating at least the fundamental elements: 1) Excitation source (405nm laser might work -- at least it is narrow-band and "out-of-band" relative to the plots you presented), 2) test fluid (seems that might be the same chemical and concentration they used -- it needs to be the same), and 3) a gain-corrected spectrometer. Assuming the first two were resolved, gain correction (so the PLab device has a flat response) to eliminate that factor from altering the general "shape" of the fluorescence curve. All the other factors are probably of lesser importance at this stage.
