---
cid: 14838
node: [Using a Rhodamine B standard to correct some past research mistakes...](../notes/dhaffnersr/06-29-2016/using-a-rhodamine-b-standard-to-correct-some-past-research-mistakes)
nid: 13248
created_at: 2016-07-01 08:55:13 +0000
timestamp: 1467363313
uid: 461120
author: [dhaffnersr](../profile/dhaffnersr)
---

[@stoft](/profile/stoft) hey Dave, I thought we never say "oops," but "Ah...Interesting!"

Spekwin does include automatically in the legend "averaged," but I removed it, I did even think about leaving it there. I will include it if I use it again, I was experimenting with it as another way of taming some of the signal noise from this detector. I always work from a copy when it comes to the raw data file ( CSV) learned that the hard way.

I have to make sub folders within the main folder I am working from ( because of my unique problem.) I see the value though in what you are saying about the trail of evidence aspect, and I was working along that train of thought yesterday. I broke down each step in data processing in sequential order, and it helps considerably. 

I also wanted to correct another error I made about the LED arrays I was talking about earlier, I was confusing LED arrays with photo multipliers, it was the photo multipliers in which wavelength can be selected. I just wanted to clear that up, sorry.

So let me ask you, can a polarizing filter be used to align collimated light coming from the slit to the detector? and could that solve part of the problem of bandwidth error?



 

[dhaffnersr](../profile/dhaffnersr) replying to: [Using a Rhodamine B standard to correct some past research mistakes...](../notes/dhaffnersr/06-29-2016/using-a-rhodamine-b-standard-to-correct-some-past-research-mistakes)

