---
node: Using a Rhodamine B standard to correct some past research mistakes...
author: stoft
created_at: 2016-06-30 02:55:59 +0000
timestamp: 1467255359
nid: 13248
cid: 14833
uid: 54025
---



[stoft](../profile/stoft) replying to: [Using a Rhodamine B standard to correct some past research mistakes...](../notes/dhaffnersr/06-29-2016/using-a-rhodamine-b-standard-to-correct-some-past-research-mistakes)

----
On the plots .... seems odd that the 532nm source signal does not appear. Was it removed from the data? If so, how was it's influence on the remaining plot data handled? There does appear to be some low-level noise in the the data starting about 525nm.

On the resolution calculation ..... yes, I did find the power point presentation source it came from and another page describing that calculation as well. However, I believe that calculation is specific to the optical parameters of an ideal slit, an ideal diffraction grating and an ideal focal plane.

With the PLab device, the "spectral bandpass" of the device is influenced by both 1) the slit being used as a collimator (only an approximation of collimated light) and 2) the detector is not just an ideal focal plane, but a CCD pixel array.

So, a simpler estimate for the theoretical device resolution (w/o additional collimation errors) is three (3) times the ratio of (the wavelength span) / (number of pixels) detecting that span. For the older 640x480 webcam, where the 400-800nm span was about 2/3 the width of the image, the theoretical resolution would be ( (800-400)/((2/3)x640) x 3 ) = 3nm. The '3' is required because with quantized pixel detectors, it requires a minimum of 3 pixels to describe a "peak". [ The idea is "how many side-by-side, separate, narrow, individual signal peaks can be detected. ]

Another, more practical, approach is to remember that the FWHM of a narrow signal (i.e. laser) being detected by a spectrometer also describes the resolution bandwidth. [This is where the resolution is worse than the actual bandwidth of the source (laser) which, in the case of simple devices like the webcams for PLab spectrometers, should be true.] I've not found a reputable measure of the BW of a pocket laser, but I suspect it is <<1nm. Assuming that is true, careful repeat measurements of the FWHM "smearing" of a pure laser source, by the PLab spectrometer, should validate calculated estimates.

Ok, all that said .... what happened to the effect of the slit. Right; yes, the slit does matter. If the slit was so small that it illuminated only two grating lines, the resolution would be very low (and there'd be very little light. If wider to illuminate many grating lines, the interference pattern improves the resolution until the slit is very wide and then the light is no longer colimated and the resolution becomes poor.

An approximation is R = m x N, where R is the grating "resolving power", m is the diffraction mode order (assume 1 for most cases) and N is the number of grating lines illuminated by the slit. For a 0.12mm slit (and exactly the same illumination of the grating) and a 1350 lines/mm DVD grating, R = 1 x 0.12 x 1350 = 162. Then, the resolution BP of the slit + grating at 532nm would be BP = wavelength / R = 532 / 162 = 3.28nm. This could be calculated in reverse, and start with the pixel-based resolution limit of the camera (3nm from above) and calculate the "matching" maximum slit width as: BP = 532 / (Ws x 1350), so Ws (slit width) = 532 / (3.0 x 1350) = 0.13mm. This would be the slit width where the slit contributes as much to the bandwidth limit as the pixel resolution -- and a wider slit will not help because of the pixel limit.

It is important to remember that all of this is theoretical and that practical considerations, such as the slit being used as the colimator, and the relatively poor optics of the webcam will overshadow all of this and probably further reduce the system resolution.