---
cid: 14848
node: [ideal mechanisms & silly putty camera rig](../notes/mathew/07-01-2016/ideal-mechanisms-silly-putty-camera-rig)
nid: 13255
created_at: 2016-07-03 20:50:23 +0000
timestamp: 1467579023
uid: 554
author: [cfastie](../profile/cfastie)
---

A weakness of spring powered, egg timer powered, or rubber band powered KAP rigs is that they don't stop panning to take each photo. As long as the motion is slow and steady this weakness won't compromise photo quality too much, although the slower it is the longer it takes to complete one rotation and the more likely it is that the kite has moved the rig so much that all the photos will not stitch together.

When a similar constant motion is used for tilting the camera while the rig pans, a new problem emerges. If the tilting is not coordinated with the panning, photos will be taken in a spiral instead of in multiple parallel loops. These photos could stitch into a spiraling panorama, which may or may not be satisfactory. So an improvement would be to allow constant panning motion but incremental tilting motion. Ideally, the camera would tilt only once per 360° panning rotation. This can be implemented with an [escapement](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mJSjJZPngl4) or cam (I can't find the video of the cam tilting example). More detail of the escapement solution is [here](https://sites.google.com/site/billandangeli/windandwind).

This type of tilting solution might be more trouble than it is worth. If the camera is mounted in portrait mode, the vertical coverage is increased enough that only one row of photos is needed for many projects. Panning can happen indefinitely so 360° coverage is possible. As long as the camera is in portrait mode and the lens focal length is adequate, very good coverage is possible. That is the route I took with the [Aerobee Rig](http://kaptery.com/product/aerobee-rig-kit). So a desirable feature of any self panning rig is to allow portrait mode mounting of the camera. Then camera tilting could be added (or not).

Chris

[cfastie](../profile/cfastie) replying to: [ideal mechanisms & silly putty camera rig](../notes/mathew/07-01-2016/ideal-mechanisms-silly-putty-camera-rig)

