---
cid: 14938
node: [Spectrometer from a drone](../notes/sylvainbonhommeau/07-13-2016/spectrometer-from-a-drone)
nid: 13286
created_at: 2016-07-14 05:37:39 +0000
timestamp: 1468474659
uid: 483452
author: [sylvainbonhommeau](../profile/sylvainbonhommeau)
---

hi,
thanks for all your answer! 
sorry for the incomplete description of the experiment. Basically, we need the light spectrum for each pixel. I saw this [paper](https://www.cg.tuwien.ac.at/research/publications/2012/Habel_2012_PSP/Habel_2012_PSP-Draft.pdf) which describes how to do that with a "normal" camera. 
I guess an option using your device would be to fly relatively low so each acquisition from your spectrometer would be one pixel. However, it would increase the time to cover one area...
Regarding the light intensity/reflectance issue, I think there could be ways to overcome this issue:
- since we use a statistical model to link the spectrum shape of a pixel and what is observed (sand, corals...), we could recalibrate this model using the outputs of the spectrometer. It's not the best option since we already did a lot of field observation and hyperspectral acquisition with the (20 000us$...) camera.
- we could have a camera pointing upwards towards the sky to get the incoming light and then calculate the reflectance.
Everything would be postprocessed because i don't need to have real time data. i also wanted to use a differentiel gps to have a centimeter precision basically using this [diy gps](http://www.instructables.com/id/Sub-Centimeter-GPS-With-RTKLIB/). A friend has done one and with an IMU he's able to georeference each image on-board without long pos-processing with manual orthorectification.
Anyway, this project might not be straightforward but I'm gonna start some tests. Maybe I'm gonna work with a master student to help me because I'm in marine biology so it reaches my limits in understanding... it could be a nice PhD topic too.
I let you guys know about any new development but if you have other ideas, they are welcome!

thanks a lot!
sylvain

[sylvainbonhommeau](../profile/sylvainbonhommeau) replying to: [Spectrometer from a drone](../notes/sylvainbonhommeau/07-13-2016/spectrometer-from-a-drone)

