---
node: Raspberry + NoIR cam + Blue filter
author: cfastie
created_at: 2016-07-16 17:51:02 +0000
timestamp: 1468691462
nid: 13289
cid: 14953
uid: 554
---



[cfastie](../profile/cfastie) replying to: [Raspberry + NoIR cam + Blue filter](../notes/carolccarvalho/07-15-2016/raspberry-noir-cam-blue-filter)

----
Those NDVI images look reasonable. Deep shadows are not being handled very well so they are assigned NDVI values of 1.0 (magenta) or apparently -1.0 (white). There might not be anything you can do about that except fly when it is bright but without direct sunlight.

It is okay to add a constant to the NDVI values if it is done systematically. The same adjustment must be made for all NDVI images that are to be compared. It is probably better to make the adjustments on the color balance when the photo are being taken so the standard computation of NDVI gives good results, but those adjustments also have to be done systematically for all photos that will be used to make comparable NDVI images. 

It is better to get well exposed photos than to get underexposed or overexposed photos and then make adjustments. The underexposed photos above will not have much dynamic range (difference between the brightest and dimmest parts) and the resulting NDVI images could also have a compressed range (that's probably why adding 0.25 helped). 

Including a fixed reference (a target of known reflectance) is a standard way to calibrate the process. The standard procedure is to know the reflectance of the target in the NIR and VIS  (blue in your case). A shortcut might be to take photos that give what appear to be good NDVI results (healthy plants with NDVI values 0.3 to 0.7, and non plants with NDVI below 0.2). Then use those camera settings and lighting conditions to take photos of some handy targets of different colors. The next time you take photos, include the targets in them and adjust the color balance of the jpegs until the relative brightness in the red and blue channels of pixels in the targets is the same as it was on the day you got good NDVI results. Then use those photos to compute NDVI. You have to find targets that allow the red and blue channels to be well exposed (not too bright or too dim).  

It's a lot easier if you have some bright and dim targets that each have the same reflectance for NIR and VIS (or any reflectance as long as you know it) because you can do all the adjustments mathematically. But a less precise method might work.

Chris