---
node: Raspberry + NoIR cam + Blue filter
author: cfastie
created_at: 2016-07-21 19:37:34 +0000
timestamp: 1469129854
nid: 13289
cid: 14996
uid: 554
---



[cfastie](../profile/cfastie) replying to: [Raspberry + NoIR cam + Blue filter](../notes/carolccarvalho/07-15-2016/raspberry-noir-cam-blue-filter)

----
>1) When you said shortcut, you meant I could for example use a blue led or a blue paint as target? Or do you have another suggestion?  

An LED or other light source can work for calibrating, but it's hard to put it in your outdoors photos, so a colored surface that can be placed in the same light as the plants are in works better. You will need one or more surfaces which reflect both blue and NIR light so that neither channel is too over exposed or underexposed.

>2) Once I get good results with the target in the picture, can I (for the same camera settings and lighting conditions) calibrate using the pixel color of the target from the picture that gave me the best results?  

Yes, that is the idea. Adjust each new photo (or set of photos) so that the target pixels are the same and then those photos can be compared with each other. I don't know if this has been tried in this simple form, but it should work. You will have to figure out how to do the "adjusting" of the color balance of the photos.

The Mobius Infragram has a nice feature which allows a custom white balance to be set by entering three numbers. Every subsequent photo taken has the brightness of the three color channels adjusted the same way. The closest equivalent I know of for the Pi Cam is a feature of [Picamera](https://picamera.readthedocs.io/en/release-1.10/api_camera.html) which allows a custom white balance setting which modifies the result of the automatic white balance algorithm. The setting is called awb_gains and is discussed in some [research notes](https://publiclab.org/notes/LaPa/12-03-2015/how-do-i-set-a-costum-white-balance-of-the-noir-modulo-cam).  I think the primary difference is that the automatic white balance system continues to adjust the color balance of each photo, and that balance is then modified by the setting for awb_gains. This could be very effective if all of the photos you were comparing were similar in overall color.

Chris
