---
cid: 15032
node: [Raspberry + NoIR cam + Blue filter](../notes/carolccarvalho/07-15-2016/raspberry-noir-cam-blue-filter)
nid: 13289
created_at: 2016-07-26 15:32:26 +0000
timestamp: 1469547146
uid: 554
author: [cfastie](../profile/cfastie)
---

Most surfaces reflect both NIR and visible light. Ideally you would have some targets that reflect various amounts of both and you would know the percent reflectivity for each target in the two wavelength bands you are using (blue and NIR). Then you can use a [calibration routine](https://publiclab.org/notes/cfastie/05-01-2016/calibration-cogitation). 

I am suggesting a shortcut in which some targets of unknown reflectivity are included in each photo and then the color balance of the photo is adjusted in a program like Photoshop so that the proportion of brightness in the red and blue channels for the targets matches some predetermined level. That level would be determined from photos that give good results for NDVI under similar lighting conditions. So you would have to know what good results for NDVI should be for a particular type of vegetation. This is a very subjective method and has probably never been tried. It was just a suggestion. Some sites with spectral reflectivity of common surfaces are mentioned in this note: https://publiclab.org/notes/nedhorning/11-01-2013/why-a-red-filter-should-work-well-for-ndvi, and in comments on this note: https://publiclab.org/notes/LaPa/03-31-2016/raspberry-noir-cam-sensors-to-detect-water-stress-of-the-plants-during-their-growing.

If you do not use a real calibration routine with known targets and regression analysis, you can adjust the white balance setting of the camera so that the NIR channel (red in your case) is several times brighter than the visible channel (blue in your case) in pixels for healthy foliage. That is the function of the numbers you mentioned for the Mobius camera. This allows photos to be captured that give NDVI results in the proper range, but the particular values depend on lighting, sun angle, and exposure and cannot be compared with other NDVI values unless all those variables are controlled. So using those numbers for a Mobius camera is not calibration, it's a clever hack.

Chris

[cfastie](../profile/cfastie) replying to: [Raspberry + NoIR cam + Blue filter](../notes/carolccarvalho/07-15-2016/raspberry-noir-cam-blue-filter)

