---
node: Progress of the Expanded Q & A Project
author: stevie
created_at: 2016-07-27 23:26:03 +0000
timestamp: 1469661963
nid: 13309
cid: 15041
uid: 422561
---



[stevie](../profile/stevie) replying to: [Progress of the Expanded Q & A Project](../notes/ananyo2012/07-25-2016/progress-of-the-expanded-q-a-project)

----
Hi there! Great work, this looks awesome. 

Here are a couple thoughts::

* Clicking on a tag on this page could go to the questions_search for that tag 
* The text at the top of the page currently says :: "All Questions Listing all recent questions" Thinking about other text that might be helpful in introducing the feature. Drafting up some ideas, what do you think of this:: 

Title: Questions and Answers
Subtitle: Public Lab's growing knowledge base
Body text: Here you can ask a question to the Public Lab community to help you in your environmental exploration.  This is a great space to ask whether a method exists for identifying a possible *pollutant*, or ask about details of a specific *technique* for identifying a pollutant.  Have knowledge on a specific topic? You can also signup to answer questions in a particular area to support the growing knowledge base on low-cost environmental research methods.

Could there be a tab for "Help" as well? This could be useful for someone using this space for the first time.  For example: Asking a question on this forum posts to the Public Lab "Questions" page. Asking a question requires having a publiclab.org login (here is where you can get a login.) 

- Why ask or answer questions? By asking or answering questions on Public Lab we build the collective knowledge base!

- Asking a question: Anyone who has Public Lab account can ask a question on Public Lab. Questions will be posted on the page in chronological order, but can also sorted by "most popular" and "liked" questions. Anyone with a Public Lab account can respond to questions. As the author of a question, you will be sent an email notification when someone responds. You are also able to put the "approved" label on any answers people provide. The responses to your question will be sorted by "most liked" *(is this correct?)*

- Answering questions: Anyone with a Public Lab account can answer a question. A particularly helpful answer can be acknowledged by users with the "approved" label or the up/vote *(Is it an up-vote or a like?)*

Other things that might need explanation in a help section are: liking, tagging and up-voting, searching for questions 

- It might be helpful to outline a what a good answer might have in it?  For example, clear and precise language, resources for people to look for more information etc.

Other ideas and things to think about:: 

* At footer of a question you're looking to answer, it could prompt you to sign up answer related questions
* Use sidebar to invite "answering" and "sign up/subscribe to answer questions on this topic" -- to get people to sign up, vs. main area being "asking"- "share your knowledge" call to action text at top
* By "popular tags" , which might or might not be equivalent to "Research Area" So with over all questions, we might want to curate meta-tags like "pollutant" or "technique" -- let's think about how to bring tagging into the broader culture 


Thanks for posting! 