---
node: Plant Air Remediation Field Test #2 (Georgia)
author: nshapiro
created_at: 2016-08-04 15:41:48 +0000
timestamp: 1470325308
nid: 13325
cid: 15072
uid: 380298
---



[nshapiro](../profile/nshapiro) replying to: [Plant Air Remediation Field Test #2 (Georgia)](../notes/nshapiro/08-02-2016/plant-air-remediation-field-test-2-georgia)

----
Hi Jeff! 
The RKI FP-30 does not follow an EPA recognized method. For what its worth, the company that makes it claims that their results are very similar (within 0.005 ppm) to the DNPH cartridge method (presumably using EPA federal reference method TO-11A for sampling) when sampling interior air. The TO-11A form of sampling is very cost prohibitive and the group would not have been able to do any testing on their budget with that method. They are very active in trying to get city, state and federal agencies to perform sampling in their community, but were not able to get them to do any testing on this issue for exactly the reasons you mentioned. 

I like those questions! and will add them into the next steps section. Thanks! I think replication in other sites might be more informative than follow up with this household. if only we had a website where this data could be aggregated and follow-up questions could be automatically and easily asked to all those involved :)

Silent Disaster is planning on holding a workshop where people can make their own filters and it is unlikely that they will be able to fund having pre-and post testing for everyone/anyone but maybe we can help them use pre and post symptom surveys? Its also a question of who is going to analyze that data if its collected. 