---
node: *FIXED* Riffle SD card Power Consumption
author: EdMallon
created_at: 2016-08-10 04:37:49 +0000
timestamp: 1470803869
nid: 13195
cid: 15098
uid: 420750
---



[EdMallon](../profile/EdMallon) replying to: [*FIXED* Riffle SD card Power Consumption](../notes/kinasmith/06-14-2016/fixed-riffle-sd-card-power-consumption)

----
I have posted most of the low power techniques I am using at:
https://edwardmallon.wordpress.com/2015/11/05/a-diy-arduino-data-logger-build-instructions-part-4-power-optimization/

Forcing the DS3231 to run off of the backup coin cell saves almost 0.1mA and my best guess at this point is that a CR2032 should be able to handle the drain for about four years of operation before it needs to be replaced.  Putting the internal pullups on the SPI bus lines seems to help some cards, and not others, but when it does help it makes a huge difference in how fast the SD card goes to sleep.

Depending on the number of sensors I usually buffer up to five days worth of data to those little I2C eeproms, and that makes a big difference because its not just the individual write events that use power. Once you pass a certain threshold some sort of internal routine seems to be triggered and the SD card goes into house keeping modes that can hold the whole logger hostage for up to half a second of latency while it does its thing. I track my battery voltages, and these really show up in the record as hits to the power supply but I don't have an oscilloscope to look at those events in detail, and even if I did it would take some luck to catch them. 

Btw, I've had a mutual discussing threads at the Arduino playground with the fellow who wrote SdFat, and he does not recommend de-powering the SDcards. However the folks over at OSBSS seem to have been doing it with no problems so perhaps there is something different about the newer sd cards that makes them more robust?  Would love to hear how the depowering works out for you guys if you try it.