---
node: LEAFFEST 2016
author: warren
created_at: 2016-08-19 18:05:29 +0000
timestamp: 1471629929
nid: 13350
cid: 15190
uid: 1
---



[warren](../profile/warren) replying to: [LEAFFEST 2016](../notes/cfastie/08-12-2016/leaffest-2016)

----
Hi Chris - [OSHWA](http://oshwa.org/) is organizing an October-long "documentation month" where different groups host 3h group hardware documentation sessions. We were wondering if we could do one at LEAFFEST -- maybe in relation to the [new Activity Grids](/wiki/spectrometry#Activities). Even though it's not in Oct, it's close enough and OSHWA is amenable. What do you think? 