---
cid: 15224
node: [GSoC 2016: Final Work Product of Browser-based Arduino sensor data transfer using the headphone jack](../notes/rmeister/08-23-2016/gsoc-2016-final-work-product-of-browser-based-arduino-sensor-data-transfer-using-the-headphone-jack)
nid: 13390
created_at: 2016-08-25 16:02:56 +0000
timestamp: 1472140976
uid: 1
author: [warren](../profile/warren)
---

This is tremendous work, thank you Richard. 

Some possible next steps would be:

* making (or creating a clearly documented issue for) on-the-fly settings changes, so that people can "try out" different settings to see what works best
* guidance for people to submit notes/tips/questions about specific settings/devices/pairings, both for peer troubleshooting and to facilitate better testing and future code refinements
* perhaps a checklist or some initial ideas for researching/planning error correction could be added to an issue. I wonder if a proposed API for this could be helpful, or potentially a search for complimentary node module/arduino libs that implement error correction. Even search keywords might be helpful. Error correction could also benefit browser-to-browser comms. 
* perhaps broken out issues, or a table for microcontroller types in the README, linking to issues, would be a helpful starting point for future contributors to tackle cross-microprocessor adaptations of this code. 

I'd like to discuss how we might do some outreach to promote the project to folks who use firmata.js and things like johnny-five, or maybe CodeBender. I think there could be a lot of interest and further refinements on top of this initial base. And in general, some tidying up of the issues, and marking some more as "help-wanted" would be helpful in inviting new contributors. 

This is excellent, thorough work, and it's been a real pleasure to work with you this summer. I really enjoyed your self-motivation, organization and good documentation skills (like the animated gif demo!). 

Thanks again! 

[warren](../profile/warren) replying to: [GSoC 2016: Final Work Product of Browser-based Arduino sensor data transfer using the headphone jack](../notes/rmeister/08-23-2016/gsoc-2016-final-work-product-of-browser-based-arduino-sensor-data-transfer-using-the-headphone-jack)

