---
cid: 15288
node: [Silica (frac) Sand Research](../notes/bkleist/08-30-2016/silica-frac-sand-research)
nid: 13406
created_at: 2016-09-01 21:04:38 +0000
timestamp: 1472763878
uid: 554
author: [cfastie](../profile/cfastie)
---

Hi Ben,

I haven't used the motion detection feature of the Mobius but it should work well if you can place the camera where a blast will cause enough motion in the scene. This video illustrates how it works: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A0cG5BuS2v0. 

To demonstrate that the blast alters air quality, the light might have to be just right, so that will be an issue to work on. Ideally you would have photos or video right before the blast happened and then similar video after the blast. That will require taking a photo or short video every 10 minutes or so. A second Mobius could do that. The Mobius motion detect feature starts a video when motion is detected and then continues for a predetermined time after motion stops, but only up to one minute. It might be good to have a longer recording time than that. The camera placement has to exclude all the other things that might move so that the camera does not record a lot of irrelevant video.

I don't know how long the Mobius battery lasts when in motion detection mode. If you will need to power the Mobius via USB, then you could also power a Raspberry Pi and Pi camera. That will probably allow more complete control of interval recording and also motion detection recording because you can program it to do whatever you want. It would not be very difficult to program the Pi to start taking photos or video when a signal was received from a microphone. A blast probably produces a much more distinct sound signal than motion signal so it might be easier to eliminate false positives by using sound.

Do you think the dew problem could be solved if you put the camera under something? In other words protect the camera from the sky to block radiative cooling. Or in some way keep the camera warmer. The protective case might not make any difference because the dew will just form on that.

Chris

[cfastie](../profile/cfastie) replying to: [Silica (frac) Sand Research](../notes/bkleist/08-30-2016/silica-frac-sand-research)

