---
node: Question: What is the Open Source Community's Take the MIT License?
author: cfastie
created_at: 2016-09-02 13:42:14 +0000
timestamp: 1472823734
nid: 13411
cid: 15291
uid: 554
---



[cfastie](../profile/cfastie) replying to: [Question: What is the Open Source Community's Take the MIT License?](../notes/nshapiro/09-02-2016/question-what-is-the-open-source-community-s-take-the-mit-license)

----
Nick, I think it's a little misleading to say that a Creative Commons license does not claim to be a copyright. Typically, when you produce a new creative work (in the US and other places), it is automatically copyrighted. If someone uses it without your permission, you may have some legal recourse. 

If you assign a Creative Commons license to your work, you are granting permission to anyone to use it in certain ways, but you still have legal copyright protection for your work. The CC license allows others to benefit from it in particular ways, but not in all ways. The power of the CC licenses is their explicit statements of exactly what others may and may not do with your work. Some of the CC licenses surrender most of the potential benefits you could gain from your copyright, but others do not. If someone oversteps the limits of the license you have granted, you have legal recourse because of the copyright protection of your work.

An odd thing about this is that you can pay to register a copyright and then have additional protection, e.g., I think registration allows you to recover your legal costs if you sue, whereas you can sue only for damages if you don't register. So when you grant a CC license, you should also pay to register your copyright. If you don't, and a big corporation uses your work improperly (e.g., commercially or without attribution) you probably will not be able to afford to do anything about it.

The MIT license seems to apply only to software, and seems to be very similar to the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License.

Chris