---
node: Activity Categories
author: gretchengehrke
created_at: 2016-09-06 15:32:21 +0000
timestamp: 1473175941
nid: 13413
cid: 15317
uid: 430549
---



[gretchengehrke](../profile/gretchengehrke) replying to: [Activity Categories](../notes/gretchengehrke/09-02-2016/activity-categories)

----
Hi [@cfastie](/profile/cfastie),

Great comments. For the verify vs test-tool limits, I can definitely see how their distinction can be unclear -- maybe you can help me articulate here. I think it's important to distinguish between "this is something we know this tool can do if it is built properly" (tag:verify) versus "let's try to find out just how well this tool can do X" (tag: test-limits). In the former, we're asserting that we already know something and to ensure you built the tool and/or followed the method properly, you should be able to do this too. In the latter, we don't know yet, so let's try something and see how well we can do and whether or not others can replicate it. Does that distinction make sense? Do you think we can more clearly articulate it in the wiki about activity categories?

As for the "observe," that is mostly a category for research notes that really don't qualify as an experiment, but the person did something and want to know if, when other people do the same thing, they observe that too. Field tests can range from this sort of observation (e.g. "hey, I left this thing out in the creek for two weeks, and I saw a ton of algae grow on it") through experiments (e.g. "I deployed this thing for two weeks at depths of x, y, and z in a stagnant lake and in a flowing river, and I saw this gradation of algal growth etc.") So, I think that for field tests especially, they can and should be double-tagged.

In general, do you think more or fewer categories will be more education and/or thought-provoking for people, especially those new to research?

Thanks!
G