---
cid: 15323
node: [Silica (frac) Sand Research](../notes/bkleist/08-30-2016/silica-frac-sand-research)
nid: 13406
created_at: 2016-09-06 16:53:34 +0000
timestamp: 1473180814
uid: 430549
author: [gretchengehrke](../profile/gretchengehrke)
---

Hi [@bkleist](/profile/bkleist), 

Interesting stuff! What is your electricity situation and need for being inconspicuous like where you have the camera? I wonder if a small space heater could keep the camera area above the dew point. That would require a lot of energy and would probably be fairly noticeable, so it's not likely to be an ideal solution. Maybe trying to house the camera in a hydrophilic housing material could attract the dew? 

For light conditions and frequency of photos that could be useful, see [EPA's Method 9 for visual emissions monitoring](https://www3.epa.gov/ttn/emc/method9.html). There is a digital camera opacity technique (see the link to the discussion Stevie put in her comment) where you could use a certified camera and photo analysis system, and you yourself become certified, but it might be worthwhile to try to achieve the conditions specified in the method without being certified (which can become expensive). Generally, the sun should be behind the camera (which is tough with a stationary camera over the course of a day...), and photos taken every 15 seconds for six minutes when fugitive emissions occur. Do you know the highest frequency setting the camera has? 

Please join the conversation on the air quality google group! (see: https://publiclab.org/lists).

[gretchengehrke](../profile/gretchengehrke) replying to: [Silica (frac) Sand Research](../notes/bkleist/08-30-2016/silica-frac-sand-research)

