---
node: Conductivity and Temperature Meter
author: bhickman
created_at: 2016-09-07 00:14:47 +0000
timestamp: 1473207287
nid: 13091
cid: 15332
uid: 201929
---



[bhickman](../profile/bhickman) replying to: [Conductivity and Temperature Meter](../notes/bhickman/05-09-2016/conductivity-and-temperature-meter)

----
Hello pdhixenbaugh, I like how you have colored the schematic, makes things much clearer. As for your questions, I'll try and answer them. 

Firstly, for the issue of drift, I believe your description of its cause is accurate. Any change in the physical or electrical setup can cause drift, whatever the reason. The purpose of R5 and R6 is so that you can make a measurement of a known resistance. Only one of the resistors (R5 or R6) is used at a time, and which one used depends on which resistor your using for R1 in your schematic (R1-R4). I would select R5 if I'm using 100 or 1K Ohms for R1, and I would use R6 if I have 100K or 1M Ohm for R1.  I would adjust the switches so that only R5 or R6 is in line to virtual ground (GND in your schematic) by closing the appropriate switch, and Rprobe and the other resistor (either R5 or R6 not in line to ground) are isolated by opening the relevant switches. Then I would record the measured resistance of R5 or R6. 

By repeating the above process before and after making a series of measurements on a water samples (or whatever you may find to measure), you can adjust for any drift. For example: If your measured the resistance value of R5 before a series of sample measurements to be 1K and measure its value after the series of sample measurements to be 1.1K, then you know that the first sample is correct and the last sample measured is 10% too large. You can simply linearly interpolate to get the error for the samples in between. 

For the operation of the digital switch, you send it an 8 bit digital signal from a microcontroller. The switch I'm using in MAX395CWG. I'll try and upload the microcontroller code I'm using here soon, just have to clean it up a bit first. 

For the opamp (IC1A), its purpose is to boos the current capacity of the signal. The signal is generated from the microcontroller, which has a 40mA limit (I think). By using the opamp the current limit is increased to 100 mA (I think, have to find the data sheet again). 

For ICIC (virtual ground), the opamp isolates the voltage divider from the rest of the circuit. This is done because when the voltage divider is not isolated, it becomes a voltage divider under load (http://hyperphysics.phy-astr.gsu.edu/hbase/electric/voldiv.html), which effects the output voltage. 

For the Vread sections, I would check out this video (https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jllsqRWhjGM). 

Hope that helps.

Ben