---
node: The many types of evidence
author: stoft
created_at: 2016-09-09 20:09:49 +0000
timestamp: 1473451789
nid: 13431
cid: 15353
uid: 54025
---



[stoft](../profile/stoft) replying to: [The many types of evidence](../notes/warren/09-08-2016/the-many-types-of-evidence)

----
[@warren](/profile/warren), [@david-days](/profile/david-days) is right; and in a number of different ways. Yes, the "integrity" of the data is an accurate reference; both legal and scientific. This includes not only keeping the original data but also not creating error by reporting an extracted result value of eg. 1.254678 when the measurement has an uncertainty of -0.2 +0.6 such that the only result with meaning is a value of 1.2 +/-Uncertainty or, in some cases, 2 (not 2.0, just 2). There is often a tendency to become complacent about collecting / reporting data and not stopping to ask "do these measurements even make any sense?".

This sense of practicality needs to be extended to the question of "could any of [this] data be taken seriously [as compared with professional / certified services]?". I suspect that an unprocessed, time-stamped photo is probably "valued" at least 10x more than a few measurement results (where the potential for points of error can be far greater.). It is not difficult to argue that improper measurement and data collection produces useless information -- an all too common event. However it is difficult to argue that if contributors learn how to do proper measurements and proper data collection, then the information should be accepted evidence. The difference is in the expectations; accurate, meaningful measurements / data should be both a goal and a necessity but expectations of its acceptance, value and use should be tempered; first by peer review and then by the harsh realities of non-scientific perspectives. Unfortunately, scientific 'proof', even if overwhelming, is not a guarantee of legal 'proof' of action or even intent. What that means is that the "front end" of that process is essentially the only part over which there is some measure of control. That means it is possible to deliberately choose to do the up-front work accurately, thoroughly and with peer-review as without doing so, the 'back-end' of the process will either find the information useless or the process will fail to 'prove' its case.