---
cid: 15374
node: [The many types of evidence](../notes/warren/09-08-2016/the-many-types-of-evidence)
nid: 13431
created_at: 2016-09-14 09:16:15 +0000
timestamp: 1473844575
uid: 461120
author: [dhaffnersr](../profile/dhaffnersr)
---

[@david-days](/profile/david-days) [@stoft](/profile/stoft),[@warren](/profile/warren), I agree that sometimes, "peer" review can be a bit like, trying to sprint through a pool of molasses, although this is critically necessary in the context of proving an assumption or scientific experiment. There is also the unique problem of "ego" review, what I mean by this is, "audit of data, by self-perceived intellectual superiority." Example., scientist "A" reviews scientist "B's" research paper, scientist "A" determines that scientist "B's" work is inferior, this process continues a number of times with the same result; inferior. 

Scientist "B" starts to correct deficiencies from previous "peer" reviewed work. Scientist "B" again presents a higher level of experimental research, scientist "A" again determines that scientist "B's" work is once again, inferior. This process repeats itself a number of times, until scientist "B" realizes that scientist "A" has not crossed all their "T's" and dotted all their "I's."

Upon further scrutiny, scientist "B" reviews scientist "A's" work, and constructs a systematic profile based on all of scientist "A's" available research, and the results are surprising, "audit of data, by self-perceived intellectual superiority." 

This diagnosis can be reduced into its respective component parts;
1) "I speak from a position of authority."
explanation; one cannot "speak" from a position of authority, this implies that you have acquired all knowledge in a particular subject, this is engaging in "absolutes."

2) "I can exercise this authority in the cloak of anonymity."
explanation; The internet provides this type of anonymity, scientist "A" is "faceless," a ghost with a generic avatar, yet is recognized by their peers as an authority figure. There is absolutely no way to validate scientist "A's" credentials, one is only left with the option, of taking scientist "A's" opinion on "faith." 

3) Intellectual corruption; "follow the data where it leads, no matter "where" it leads!" Plab, another component in my discussion here, the quote above is a universal truth, but few ever follow this path. "activism" can often be synonymous with moral corruption.
explanation; good intentions, are never the best intentions, yes, this sounds cold and heartless, it is the truth though, example; "but my heart was in the right place" "well, at least we tried something." Many, and I mean, many times there is never a good plan if there was a plan at all in these hypothetical endeavors. 

Many instances, and it can be proven, that when it comes to environmental science, research data can often times be manipulated to "fit" an agenda or a particular narrative.

I see that behavior here at Plab, cloaking one's self in the "code of conduct" every time there is the slightest perceived provocation, that is an insidious pathogen, and it is not the engine that drives the creative processes or inspires the imagination, it is the antipathy of it. 

4) Plab's "progress toward community pollution analysis"; -profile view: audit of data by self-perceived intellectual superiority. 
explanation; Scientist "B," "your research, does not adhere to our standards of conformity nor data quality." Counter argument by scientist "B," "you have no real research data of your own though, that conforms to any standard that I can perceive?" 

Plab's counter argument; "of course we have research and data, look at all the oil bottles and eye droppers we have, and balloons that we have sent up in the sky, and what about all of our laser pointer work, shinning those pretty purple beams through all those oil bottles?"  

Scientist "B" points out that, not one research paper has ever been posted or presented in any professional or scientific format.

Scientist "B" points out their hypocrisy for the pot calling the kettle black.



[dhaffnersr](../profile/dhaffnersr) replying to: [The many types of evidence](../notes/warren/09-08-2016/the-many-types-of-evidence)

