---
cid: 1538
node: [Infrared camera test - film types](../notes/cindyexcites/9-20-2012/infrared-camera-test-film-types)
nid: 3907
created_at: 2012-10-01 12:24:25 +0000
timestamp: 1349094265
uid: 133
author: [nedhorning](../profile/nedhorning)
---

For me the end piece of developed film is far superior. It's sharp and the coloring is consistent across the image whereas the other is blurry a bit blotchy. The blurry image seems to be letting some visible light through which would be useful if there wasn't so much noise in the image. With a decent NIR pass (no visible light gets through) filter I would expect a black and white type of image with all color channels appearing more or less the same. The reason the “better” image has a violet hue is because the white balance is not set up for dealing with NIR light. If that were corrected I expect the image would look like a typical NIR black and white photo. I agree it would be good to do some tests with different filter types including some manufactured filter material. I probably won't be able to do much DIY filter testing in the near term but am happy to brainstorm with others who are interested in testing.

Would it make sense to coordinate testing so when people test a specific material they can post there reports to a web page dedicated to that? Maybe PLOTS could help with that. We could also work on a very simple protocol to add a little rigor to the tests so we can better compare and assess quality.

[nedhorning](../profile/nedhorning) replying to: [Infrared camera test - film types](../notes/cindyexcites/9-20-2012/infrared-camera-test-film-types)

