---
cid: 15465
node: [LEAFFEST 2016](../notes/cfastie/08-12-2016/leaffest-2016)
nid: 13350
created_at: 2016-09-20 23:32:32 +0000
timestamp: 1474414352
uid: 554
author: [cfastie](../profile/cfastie)
---

Thanks Leslie. In five years I think this is the first real evaluation of LEAFFEST. It’s so nice to get some reassurance that at least someone didn’t hate everything about it.  

Your ‘Things to Hack’ are really good to hear. LEAFFEST is different every year and varies from a serious predetermined agenda to no plan at all. One year I made an OCD agenda of workshops which was completely ignored. This year I made no attempt to impose an agenda, and Liz and Jeff came prepared with lots of official projects and actually made progress on them. Often I make sure I accomplish some things that I want to do, but this year I just let things happen. That allowed me to focus on hosting which is fun and maybe more critical to success. 

I got more help this year than most because lots of awesome and energetic people stepped up to cook and clean and resupply. It might be nice to spread these responsibilities around more, but it might be better to let people find their own place and not put chores in their way. 

Similarly, I would love to impose a goal on everyone to participate in a project and post a research note about it. But I have given up trying to get people to post research notes. For almost all people, that is way too much to ask. It might be good to have planned activities that people are gently pushed into, but those activities must be carefully designed and led or they miss the mark with many people. So actual skills and leadership are required to pull that off.

Planned activities at LEAFFEST also suffer from dependence on weather. Had the weather been offset one day, we might have had a stupendous solar balloon flight on Saturday morning and the entire weekend would have been different for us. Had the wind been different for our time in the high clearing, we might have introduced several people to great kite flying and their experience would be more memorable and useful than it was. 

There are some limitations imposed on LEAFFEST by the venue (plumbing, internet, coasters, sleeping for wimpy city folk). These are mostly immovable limits if you want free access to my house, yard, garden, woods, stream, etc. Public Lab meetups can happen anywhere in the world but the one that happens at my place will never be much bigger or fancier than what happened this weekend. (By the way, the internet connection did not suffer much from multiple users, it’s always that unreliable. Most of rural America does not have reliable broadband, period.)

I agree that a structured activity or two introducing the newcomers to Public Lab tools could be well received. But I don’t know how many people would prefer that to just watching the Public Lab veterans try new things. The newcomers can participate in those hacking/experimental activities and also gain firsthand experience and insight into how those tools are developed. That might be more instructive than instruction would be.  It would be good to hear from LEAFFESTers about which approach they would prefer. Jeff and Liz did a lot of work on various projects with zero or one or two people. Would other people have preferred to join in on these sessions? Or would you have preferred that they got less done but set aside time to explain the basics to you?

I have a hypothesis that the most important thing about LEAFFEST is that people who interact online get to see each other and have a few conversations. Maybe it doesn’t make any difference at all what else happens when they are in Vermont. The food, the landscape, and the mid-century modern artifacts might facilitate these social interactions and a successful LEAFFEST more than any agenda could.  

Chris


[cfastie](../profile/cfastie) replying to: [LEAFFEST 2016](../notes/cfastie/08-12-2016/leaffest-2016)

