---
node: What makes a good activity?
author: wmacfarl
created_at: 2016-09-21 00:36:45 +0000
timestamp: 1474418205
nid: 13458
cid: 15466
uid: 424597
---



[wmacfarl](../profile/wmacfarl) replying to: [What makes a good activity?](../notes/warren/09-17-2016/what-makes-a-good-activity)

----
[@warren](/profile/warren), [@liz](/profile/liz) -- I mentioned this at [#leaffest-2016](/tag/leaffest-2016) but wanted to put it here as well.

I think that "common pitfalls" or "troubleshooting" or something like that is one of the most important parts of any howto/activity guide and it's worth really emphasizing it to people for a lot of different reasons.

1)  Knowing that you have performed a set of troubleshooting processes and steps is one of the only things that will give a new user of a tool or technique confidence enough to believe that the problem they are experiencing might not be their fault.  If part of the goal of activity grids, etc, is causing people to attempt replications, we need to make sure that replication "failures" are well documented and reported as well, since a lot of times they are evidence of something wrong with the activity.

2)  Troubleshooting is absolutely the hardest part of every project so it's the part that people need the most support with.  And because it's the part that requires deepest knowledge, it's also the part where the most learning happens.  When you build/do something by following a bunch of steps, you can kind of get away without thinking hard about what they are or what you're doing as long as you are careful.  But when something goes wrong and you have to do a lot of examination of what you're doing and thinking hard about it, so it's also the point in a project where the most learning happens.

3)  "it didn't work" is both bad feedback to get on your project, and a bad feeling for newcomers to take away from the project.  Telling people a lot about how it can go wrong and giving them a concrete set of things to do and say when reporting failure will improve the quality of feedback.