---
node: Organizing the Riffle Area
author: warren
created_at: 2016-10-20 21:41:48 +0000
timestamp: 1476999708
nid: 13558
cid: 15694
uid: 1
---



[warren](../profile/warren) replying to: [Organizing the Riffle Area](../notes/pdhixenbaugh/10-13-2016/organizing-the-riffle-area)

----
I love that doodle too - maybe it could be used lower down on the page, or in an activity. It might read better horizontally, though, in a web page. 

I was thinking that, once we have pagination for non-activity grids (like just showing a collection of tagged notes with the inline tag `[notes:riffle]`) we could have a section in any wiki page to collect the most recent updates in a table. Like a "Recent updates" section.

The "entry points" question you had above caught my eye -- I've been using that phrase to think about the sequence of how people first enter the site, and first get to a page like the Riffle page, and what they see first. I think having clear activities which people can do -- starting points -- will make any project page more engaging than just one which lists what's the latest stuff going on, so this makes me think **Activities** might appear **above** latest research. ([@stevie](/profile/stevie), this might be relevant for your ongoing discussion with [@sarasage](/profile/sarasage) about project pages in general, too!)

I'm also starting to help out in organizing the [Aerial Photography page](https://publiclab.org/wiki/aerial-photography), which is going to have a **lot** of content, and I'm thinking that although it's a top-level page, the sheer quantity -- from pole mapping to kite mapping to kite building to balloon mapping, to soda bottle enclosures for cameras... it's intimidating. 

An activity grid on that topic would have dozens -- or HUNDREDS -- of entries. Maybe for a big area like that, we need to actually break it down into different sub-pages before showing a whole activity grid. Or we could show only a few introductory activities for each sub-category on the main page, and the more in-depth activities broken out across sub-pages. 