---
cid: 15728
node: [High-Rez WebCam Spectrometers](../notes/stoft/10-23-2016/high-rez-webcam-spectrometers)
nid: 13641
created_at: 2016-10-24 21:44:56 +0000
timestamp: 1477345496
uid: 54025
author: [stoft](../profile/stoft)
---

Jeff, I inserted the component details in the note above, just before the plots.

As to the RPi camera, it seems to have two "difficulties" which need solutions: 1) a "convenient" solution for interfacing the camera, controlling parameters and extracting image data from it (i.e. USB or other? ... I've just not seen a clean option) and 2) the lens. The mount and lens are very small and I've discovered (as noted in the above note) that a better lens (~8mm) is really necessary. All the added pixel data is useless if the lens is junk.

There has been some hacks to the RPi for other mounts, but the RPi board is very small so the hacks are not easy or a clean drop-in -- from what I've found so far. I also have not found specs on the chip sensitivity and dynamic range -- which is necessary for comparing cameras. If the sensitivity is low, then the background noise can also "seem better" -- but that is not a measure of image "quality" -- it is sensitivity and dynamic range that count.

Also, it would be good to compare cost of RPi + uC vs USB module types. The added pixel resolution of the monochrome I used did not appear to provide "clearly better" results than the more moderate cost ELP. No, that is not definitive numbers, but it just indicates additional details worth observing so as to compare specs that are of importance to the resulting spectra. So, I'm not rejecting the RPi, it just does not yet appear to be a drop-in option.

[stoft](../profile/stoft) replying to: [High-Rez WebCam Spectrometers](../notes/stoft/10-23-2016/high-rez-webcam-spectrometers)

