---
cid: 1609
node: [Carbon Arc](../notes/bwilliams/10-9-2012/carbon-arc)
nid: 4291
created_at: 2012-10-11 16:10:09 +0000
timestamp: 1349971809
uid: 42683
author: [PlanetenPaultje](../profile/PlanetenPaultje)
---

Mind that the original carbon electrodes for carbon arc lamps have a slightly less dense core in order to draw the arc contact there. They are still for sale. 

Another configuration is the two carbon electrodes in parallel (some 3mm separation) fixated with gypsum, cast in between. This electrode assembly will have to be absolutely dry of course. The gypsum will be blasted away while this electric candle burns slowly down and the heat of the arc will clear the electrodes, extending their life. 
This configuration will eliminate the need for adjusting the distance between the electrode points, just their position within the optics (up and down). Ignition has to be made with a third electrode. This kind of electric candle electrode assembly can be easily slotted into its holder. I used a simple 2Kw radiating stove as a ballast resistor in series with the candle, directly attached to 220V mains. You get the classic Star Wars light sabre sound of the AC and everything else on your net segment too like coffee grinders, drills etc.

Drawback of this kind of electric candle is the fairly broad source of light, good enough for lighting purposes like in a lighthouse. But if a point light source is required for more advanced optics, one configuration is a slightly beefier horizontal anode and a vertical cathode from below, so DC fed.

All great fun which requires more than adequate protection for eyes, skin and camera ;-).

[PlanetenPaultje](../profile/PlanetenPaultje) replying to: [Carbon Arc](../notes/bwilliams/10-9-2012/carbon-arc)

