---
cid: 16090
node: [Designing Tools for Learners (Not Users)](../notes/kanarinka/12-29-2016/designing-tools-for-learners-not-users)
nid: 13823
created_at: 2017-01-21 21:53:20 +0000
timestamp: 1485035600
uid: 152
author: [hagitkeysar](../profile/hagitkeysar)
---

Thanks for copying me in this discussion! I especially like the direction you are taking here - you not only talk about how to create literacy, where there is lack of, but about how to provoke learning and affect that are distributed more equally between learners, designers, and users. We are all learners!

I am thinking that even when you do a really great job at designing for learners you always keep on creating experts that share a common language that, with complexity, becomes more and more exclusive. So designing for learners or newcomers is a step in the process of learning/engaging or is it oriented towards the ongoing development of a "beginner's mind"? 

In other words, I am asking whether designing for learners/newcomers is a methodology (oriented towards a particular purpose: learning to code, work with data) or can we think about it as technology in its own right? 

I am not sure I am clear in regard to the difference, and I know you can help me here with your questions and thoughts. But I am thinking about the transformative, political potentials of designing for learners. From my interpretation, it comes across from the conversation above that designing for learners can be a way to develop a 'common language' for collaborative/civic tech development (that is, if we are all learners), in which both designers and those-who-are-defined-as-learners see this as a a technology for how to become a learner. 


[hagitkeysar](../profile/hagitkeysar) replying to: [Designing Tools for Learners (Not Users)](../notes/kanarinka/12-29-2016/designing-tools-for-learners-not-users)

