---
node: Renegotiating Expertise: a talk at ClimateX MIT
author: warren
created_at: 2017-02-02 19:12:11 +0000
timestamp: 1486062731
nid: 13863
cid: 16138
uid: 1
---



[warren](../profile/warren) replying to: [Renegotiating Expertise: a talk at ClimateX MIT](../notes/warren/01-18-2017/renegotiating-expertise-a-talk-at-climatex-mit)

----
Hi, Chris! 

Good questions on "which scientists" -- i got at this a bit in the talk itself, and your list is a good one. 

> Doesn’t the real problem lie with the rest of the educational system?

I don't think there's just one problem, and the subject of my talk was what can scientists do to participate in moving the right direction -- not to imply they're the only ones that have to do something. This is because I was speaking to a group of MIT scientists/technologists. Sorry this doesn't come through in my notes! 

Certainly there's a great deal that I think should change about how science is taught, and I did get into that more in my talk. I think many at PL are recently shifting towards a more nuanced understanding of how education and PL's work relate. Check out [this post, for example](https://publiclab.org/notes/kanarinka/12-29-2016/designing-tools-for-learners-not-users) And I definitely don't think either the public or the science community have a lot to gain from denigrating one anothers' expertises. 

(I also mentioned in my talk that the question of paid-for science is another topic I didn't have time to delve into, but have a lot of thoughts about.)

I think "teaching" doesn't quite cover the gamut of the kind of closer relationships I'm hoping for. And I think Public Lab has done a lot to explore a deeper engagement and cooperative relationship between those in both the science community and the broader public who are interested in building bridges. That's not to say we can't do a whole lot more, of course. 

Thanks for your thoughtful response!
