---
cid: 16137
node: [Renegotiating Expertise: a talk at ClimateX MIT](../notes/warren/01-18-2017/renegotiating-expertise-a-talk-at-climatex-mit)
nid: 13863
created_at: 2017-02-02 18:57:35 +0000
timestamp: 1486061855
uid: 554
author: [cfastie](../profile/cfastie)
---

You might want to specify which scientists you think should be making more contact with the public. Do you mean the scientists who have been accused of being inept at helping society? Do you mean the scientists who are paid and controlled by corporations and federal governments? Do you mean the scientists who think their expertise is dramatically distinct from yours? Do you mean the scientists who can’t know the truth because of the experimenter’s regress? Do you mean the scientists who were unaware of obscure local knowledge?

Science is under attack by the public, and something should be done about it. One solution might be to change scientists. But maybe a more reasonable approach is to change the public. If people had a better understanding of how science worked and how nature worked, maybe they would be less susceptible to false claims about climate, vaccines, chemtrails, natural selection, and science itself. 

Typical academic scientists spend most of their time teaching. Do you want them to do more? Doesn’t the real problem lie with the rest of the educational system? Maybe if students entered the workforce or started college with a basic understanding of how the natural world works and how science has figured all that out there would be less antagonism toward scientists. There are many times more educators than there are scientists, and the US federal and state education budgets dwarf their research budgets. Asking scientists to take up the slack for educators is naïve and counterproductive. 

Instead of a public outcry against science, maybe we need a public movement to help educators understand and teach science. Maybe groups like Public Lab could direct more resources toward this goal. What has Public Lab done to dispel the notion that scientists are deserving of public scorn? What has Public Lab done to help the public understand how important science and scientists are to our future? 

Chris


[cfastie](../profile/cfastie) replying to: [Renegotiating Expertise: a talk at ClimateX MIT](../notes/warren/01-18-2017/renegotiating-expertise-a-talk-at-climatex-mit)

