---
cid: 16158
node: [ 3D printed mini spectrometer](../notes/rthalman/01-19-2017/3d-printed-mini-spectrometer)
nid: 13865
created_at: 2017-02-11 14:02:26 +0000
timestamp: 1486821746
uid: 482758
author: [stef](../profile/stef)
---

[@rthalman](/profile/rthalman): Hey, I'm not complaining, your design got me going on the 3D printing thing. Insofar as to the Cam temperature, by turning off the autofocus, the cam stays at the last setting selected but power is still generated to maintain that setting hence the heat. The lens is attached to a coil in a magnetic field for the focus selected. I've just dissected/destroyed another cam and noticed that it had an aluminum plate-heat sink attached to dissipate the heat. That configuration lends itself to adding a Peltier cooler to minimize the thermal noise, a work in progress.
As to the printed slit, I suspect it is the thickness printed and/or the width that caused reflections/interference. I have replicated [@stoft](/profile/stoft) paper on his method of producing slits 5 times and got 5 different results. I use the flat razor blades.
As far as the solar spectrum mentioned, it was the sky as direct viewing the sun caused much saturation of the cam. I bit the bullet and purchased a variable neutral density filter to attenuate the input. Not sure how it will affect the "purity" of the spectrum. The UV bump you mentioned could be stray light or the thermal noise as the level was quite significant. The calibration using two mercury lines may not be as accurate-don't know - over the entire spectral range.
Regards
stef

[stef](../profile/stef) replying to: [ 3D printed mini spectrometer](../notes/rthalman/01-19-2017/3d-printed-mini-spectrometer)

