---
cid: 16252
node: [Foldable Spectrometer Workshop for Cities](../notes/nicholas/02-28-2017/foldable-spectrometer-workshop-for-cities)
nid: 13969
created_at: 2017-02-28 20:25:49 +0000
timestamp: 1488313549
uid: 554
author: [cfastie](../profile/cfastie)
---

Hi Nicholas,

That sounds like it was an exciting hour. 

If a live video connection to Spectral Workbench is an obstacle, it is always possible to take a still photo of the diffraction pattern and upload that to Spectral Workbench. There is no difference in analysis, and the quality of the image might even be better.

The linked wiki page on absorption does not seem to be a helpful place to start. Too bad it can't be labelled as such. A critical procedure in measuring spectral absorption is usually missing from discussions at Public Lab. The goal of these measurements is to see that a substance in the sample blocks some wavelengths compared to the control. So both spectra (sample and control) must be made with the same exposure settings. This requires that you use a phone camera app (or webcam app) that allows you to lock the exposure for two or more photos or video frames. Phone cameras (and webcams) usually use automatic exposure which can compensate for brightness differences between the two photos and compromise your results.

Fraunhofer lines are easy to see in spectra of a clear or cloudy sky. The lines are thin, so to see the  fainter lines you want good resolution on the wavelength scale. That means a narrow entrance slit, and/or a slit farther from the grating. It also requires good alignment and focus so a clear photo can be captured. These lines will not change much over time, so a timelapse might not reveal much. The overall shape of the sky spectra will change as the sky becomes bluer, grayer, or reddish at different times.

Another fun urban project is to compare the spectra of "neon" signs. All red ones do not contain neon, and with a spectrometer it is really [easy to learn which ones do](https://publiclab.org/notes/cfastie/2-23-2013/neon). Also, street lamps can be mercury lamps, sodium lamps, or LEDs. It's easy to tell [which is which with a spectrometer](https://publiclab.org/notes/cfastie/2-26-2013/broadening).

Chris

[cfastie](../profile/cfastie) replying to: [Foldable Spectrometer Workshop for Cities](../notes/nicholas/02-28-2017/foldable-spectrometer-workshop-for-cities)

