---
node: Air Quality Monitoring at UWEC
author: bkleist
created_at: 2017-02-28 23:04:49 +0000
timestamp: 1488323089
nid: 13920
cid: 16258
uid: 489504
---



[bkleist](../profile/bkleist) replying to: [Air Quality Monitoring at UWEC](../notes/bkleist/02-10-2017/air-quality-monitoring-at-uwec)

----
[@Warren](/profile/Warren), I just watched the video you commented above and I love it. That is exactly what i want to do by using the trail camera. The Dylos setup is to be determined, the first thing that has to be determined is where the best vantage point to set up the equipment once construction has begun. The location has to have a power supply and internet capabilities, which limits potential spots. The trail camera (Crenova Trail Camera for those who are interested)  has been working well, I am still experimenting with different settings, but i need to pick up new batteries. The battery indicator said the batteries were full charge but died 2 minutes later, so i'll have to keep an eye on that, i hope it doesn't become an issue. Once some of the snow melts and the location is chosen, I will take photos of the setup and surrounding area. My goal would be to do what the video shows, where a large amount of contextual data is collected and can be reviewed, but with one addition. I would really like to set up notifications that would alert us when air concentrations hit a certain benchmark. There is an open pipe kit that is compatible with Dylos, but that sends an email notification, rather that a text notification which is what we are going for. Does anybody have information on how I could set up text notifications? :)