---
node: Hacking trail cameras to document blasts on Mountaintop Removal sites
author: marlokeno
created_at: 2017-03-01 02:43:30 +0000
timestamp: 1488336210
nid: 12225
cid: 16262
uid: 420760
---



[marlokeno](../profile/marlokeno) replying to: [Hacking trail cameras to document blasts on Mountaintop Removal sites](../notes/LauraChipley/09-18-2015/hacking-trail-cameras-to-document-blasts-on-mountaintop-removal-sites)

----
[@warren](/profile/warren)
A few notes about that green stuff. I've been looking into information on mine reclamation with our local sand mines, which are, unfortunately, getting busy again. 

The green stuff looks like a process called hydroseeding. Frackers in PA use it a lot. The grass will grow, if the soil is okay.
It's probably better than nothing; at least it holds the soil in place.
There's a so-so article about it in Wikipedia:
"Hydroseeding (or hydraulic mulch seeding, hydro-mulching, hydraseeding) is a planting process that uses a slurry of seed and mulch. It is often used as an erosion control technique on construction sites, as an alternative to the traditional process of broadcasting or sowing dry seed."

Journal article:
http://scholarworks.umass.edu/cgi/viewcontent.cgi?article=1107&context=intljssw

The above article points out that mine lands are often acidic, plant-hostile locations.
I have heard that miners will throw lime in the hydroseed mixture, which allows the grass to grow as long as lime is reapplied annually.

Sometimes, polyacrylamide, a flocculant, is used in hydroseed mixtures. Cationic and anionic polyacrylamide are both flocculants and coagulants; but  cationic polyacrylamide is toxic to aquatic invertebrates and probably other organisms.
Polyacrylamides also depolymerize to acrylamide, which is toxic to humans- a neurotoxin and IARC probable human carcinogen.
Some farms and construction projects apply polyacrylamide to the soil for erosion control. Some states require a permit if runoff goes into surface waters. I have a 5 page document from the state of Michigan, a state that requires permits,  which goes through much of the above.
I'll post it if others are interested, but I'm not sure what the best place on the publiclab site is. Suggestions?
Noxious invasive plants are always a big problem with mine or brownfield reclamation. They're supposed to use native plant seeds.  I don't know what seeds are used in commercial hydroseeding; hydroseed isn't hard to make, so a lot of people and companies go d-i-y. There are how-to's on line.