---
cid: 16279
node: [Bot for Publiclab](../notes/ryzokuken/02-28-2017/bot-for-publiclab)
nid: 13972
created_at: 2017-03-03 08:27:57 +0000
timestamp: 1488529677
uid: 493113
author: [ryzokuken](../profile/ryzokuken)
---

[@liz](/profile/liz) [@stevie](/profile/stevie) Regarding the clarifications for the bot. I need you to realize that the bot is actually a huge cluster of tiny microservices (let's say, for instance, that we have a microservice for the sole purpose of finding jokes on the internet and serving them to the community) which are abstracted away by a layer of normal chatbot functionality. In a way, the chatbot service works as an I/O service for our bot. People would tell their needs to the chatbot, who would perform multiple tasks using the other services and then serve the response back on the same channel. Ideally, users should use one of our multiple chat mediums to talk to the bot (we'd definitely have it listen to the messages on both IRC and Gitter. And we would possibly add it to Slack if the community over at Slack deem it useful for their work), but we could definitely also add/embed an interface over at Publiclab.org itself, so that we do not need to redirect users who wish to use the bot towards one of the chats.

Regarding examples, there are multiple chatbots working hard as we speak, but I realize that most of them are not used for community management. An important and relevant example would have to be FreeCodeCamp's camperbot. Not only does the bot greet new users and make the community more "welcoming", It also serves hints for the problems, rewards members with brownie points and serves data from FCC's wiki on request among many other functions. Here's the link to camperbot's source code : https://github.com/FreeCodeCamp/camperbot
Contrary to camperbot's functionality, my very own open source community in college has a Gitter bot for itself. Here's the link to it: https://github.com/osdc/osdc-bot

Although this bot started with purely recreational purposes (it serves jokes and insults still), things quickly got serious as we ended up adding quite a few features in it, including the bot's ability to trigger deployment of any of our projects, including itself. We plan to expand it by making a few neat features like making it tell when the next workshop is, and so on. I hope you got the idea. Will come back with more input soon.

[ryzokuken](../profile/ryzokuken) replying to: [Bot for Publiclab](../notes/ryzokuken/02-28-2017/bot-for-publiclab)

