---
cid: 16288
node: [Choose a way to make your camera take pictures continuously](../notes/liz/03-01-2017/set-your-camera-to-take-pictures-continuously)
nid: 13981
created_at: 2017-03-04 17:28:25 +0000
timestamp: 1488648505
uid: 554
author: [cfastie](../profile/cfastie)
---

I agree that the rubber band trick is a very clever hack and a critical way to lower the barriers to entry to remote interval shooting. This research note is apparently intended for those new to aerial photography, so it is very appropriate to include this technique.

It might also be appropriate to be open with those new users about the greater implications of deciding to use the technique. The material requirements are minimal: 1) a camera with continuous shooting feature, 2) a rubber band, 3) a lumpy thing.

The less friendly aspects of the technique include: 

1.  it's not that easy to know whether a particular camera has a continuous shooting feature,   
2.  continuous shooting on PowerShots does not work in "Auto" mode,  
3.  focus, shutter speed, and aperture are determined by the camera on the initial shutter press and repeated for every subsequent shot,  
4.  there is no way to ensure that a high shutter speed will be chosen by the camera,  
5.  the interval between photos is about one second, so 5 or 10 times more photos are taken than are typically needed,  
6.  at one photo per second, a 4GB SD card will fill up in about 20 minutes,
7.  there is a free alternative that eliminates all of these issues.

So some practice is required to get the camera settings correct and to ensure that the first photo taken sets the focus and exposure appropriately. There is no way to ensure that the shutter speed will be fast enough to minimize motion blur. Lots of redundant photos will be captured, so lots of photo sorting will be required after the flight. 

If you use the continuous shooting feature on PowerShots with the standard Auto, P, Tv, Av, and M modes, you should be aware how those modes will affect the exposure decisions made by the camera when the shutter button is first pressed. The differences could be dramatic.

There are also issues involved with using CHDK. These should be described so people can make an informed decision.

Chris

[cfastie](../profile/cfastie) replying to: [Choose a way to make your camera take pictures continuously](../notes/liz/03-01-2017/set-your-camera-to-take-pictures-continuously)

