---
node: Wiki Discussion
author: warren
created_at: 2017-03-13 20:47:22 +0000
timestamp: 1489438042
nid: 14010
cid: 16354
uid: 1
---



[warren](../profile/warren) replying to: [Wiki Discussion](../notes/Ashan/03-13-2017/wiki-discussion)

----
This is great to hear, [@Ashan](/profile/Ashan) -- I've been thinking about how we could use inline tags to make this possible, but it's a challenge. Some things to think about:

1. if a proposed edit is stored in the text, and applies to a section of text, like `the bright [suggest:1234]**eyed fox was**[/suggest] looking for food`, then what happens if the text is changes a) inside the tags, b) outside and including the tags, or c) partly outside and partly inside -- like if someone changes `bright eyed` to `dim-witted`?
2. if a comment is made inline (if we allow this), and not on its own paragraph, if the text around it is deleted or changed, does the comment disappear? Or do we try to extract the comment and move it to the end of the line, or something complicated? 

There are a lot of places things can go wrong, basically. And if we **don't** store comments inline in the text, then how do we know where to display them? (This is why I'm suggesting inline comment storage, actually.)

An inline comment might be like:

```
This person [comment:1234] went to the store.
```

while one on its own line might be like:

<code>
This person went to the store.

[comment:1234]

Then they ate food.
</code>

Sorry for my crude examples, but I hope this helps get you thinking about the complexity of this! I /also/ think that we should consider how comments appear while editing a section -- for example with the inline editor: https://github.com/publiclab/inline-markdown-editor

This last editor may also be where we prompt people to actually create comments -- next to the pencil button in the example, there might be a comment button. 

This is a lot of info -- what do you think?