---
node: A standalone aerial sensor pod
author: cfastie
created_at: 2017-03-15 21:45:08 +0000
timestamp: 1489614308
nid: 14020
cid: 16375
uid: 554
---



[cfastie](../profile/cfastie) replying to: [A standalone aerial sensor pod](../notes/cfastie/03-15-2017/a-standalone-aerial-sensor-pod)

----
Those male + female headers would be really handy. This is the first time I have used a Nano without headers, and it makes a really tidy package for an aerial rig. There probably is not a good way to assemble these flying things without soldering, and that is a huge obstacle to most people. Soldering together a thing like this pod takes a couple of hours, so it's generally going to be something the customer does. These days it might make sense to link to good videos which show how easy soldering is, and maybe even sell a soldering iron.

I bought most of these parts a year ago in a big eBay order except for the Adafruit GPS board and microSD board. The GPS board costs $40, so that's a big obstacle. I just ordered a $13 GPS board, so it's possible that parts for a sensor pod like this could cost under $30. It will be spring when it arrives, so I doubt I will find enough time to make the new GPS board work any time soon.

Today I would opt for only I2C sensors so only the functions for one type of sensor are needed. There are $6.00 BME280 sensors which do pressure, humidity, and temperature, so that single thumbnail-sized unit can make a useful sensor pod. 

For eBay shopping from Asian vendors (includes shipping):

Arduino Nano clone:.....$2.75  
MicroSD board:............$0.75  
2 GB uSD card.............$4.50  
BME280.......................$6.30  
Case for 3 AAA............$0.75  
Subtotal.......................$15.05   

GPS board...................$13.30   
Total.............................$28.35  

If Public Lab packaged these loose parts and provided good assembly instructions and a working sketch, that product might fly. Especially if there were options for sensors.

Yes, please make this an activity.


