---
node: Developing Image Sequencer as a Library
author: warren
created_at: 2017-03-19 16:01:45 +0000
timestamp: 1489939305
nid: 14035
cid: 16397
uid: 1
---



[warren](../profile/warren) replying to: [Developing Image Sequencer as a Library](../notes/ccpandhare/03-18-2017/developing-image-sequencer-as-a-library)

----
Hi, this is very thorough and impressive, thank you!

Just some notes and questions, in no particular order:

For GPU, I think we should make this optional, if possible, and maybe we need to think about where swapping in a GPU functionality should occur? Inside each module, I guess? Some uses may not have a GPU - for example on server side use. 

Likewise, JSON should be optional -- perhaps JSON could be passed into the constructor method of ImageSequencer. But I think simple function-based calls are very important as people may want to simply interface with a UI, or with another program using them, without having to assemble a more complex JSON object to use the system. For example, the demo uses a DOM click event to add a step. 

For output data, I think there's a balance to be struck on whether modules should be stateful -- like, do they store their last output? Or is that handled at the level of the sequencer, so that modules can remain very simple? I think I am leaning towards the latter, but tell me what you're thinking.

Haha, ok - your examples actually address most of my questions. Great proposal! 

I'd also like to think more about testing. How can we run tests on this? The current attempt to do nodejs based testing is having some trouble, but we might come across an easy solution with time. An alternative is to use Jasmine and PhantomJS, instead of node, not for the DOM, but for the standard browser-based Image and Canvas APIs, as we do in https://github.com/publiclab/PublicLab.Editor/

> multiple image handling

can you talk more about this?

Thank you!