---
cid: 16406
node: [Wiki Discussion](../notes/Ashan/03-13-2017/wiki-discussion)
nid: 14010
created_at: 2017-03-19 16:26:29 +0000
timestamp: 1489940789
uid: 1
author: [warren](../profile/warren)
---

Hi, Ashan - basically with `inline-markdown-editor`, the idea was to find a very clean abstraction, a way that the code could run with minimal context and complexity, not only on our own platform but potentially on other peoples' markdown content as well. So after thinking a long time about it, we took the model that it can be run on any markdown string, to both display (and parse) the markdown as HTML, but also insert editor forms after each section. Then each editor form would be able to submit a `before` and `after` request for replacing just that section of content. This isn't quite as flexible as Google Docs, but it's a clean API that can be tested and built on. 

So I think commenting and suggesting could follow similar paths, whether or not they're developed as extensions of the `inline-markdown-editor` -- the key is if their behavior is easily testable, and is separable from the rest of the PublicLab.org code. See how `inline-markdown-editor` has very clear and minimal points of interface -- the incoming markdown, and the "replacement" API call to a url like `/wiki/replace?before=aaa&after=bbb`?

That makes our code more maintainable, easier to read and understand, and more re-usable (so perhaps other projects would start to use it and help maintain it).

For comments, for example, when we render the wiki page in `plots2`, we'd go through the raw markdown [the way we do with the inline tags](https://github.com/publiclab/plots2/blob/master/app/models/concerns/node_shared.rb#L13), and find/replace those codes with a more fully-fledged form. But we could also try to do this in JavaScript, in theory, like we do with the `inline-markdown-editor`. What are the pros and cons? 

Thanks!

[warren](../profile/warren) replying to: [Wiki Discussion](../notes/Ashan/03-13-2017/wiki-discussion)

