---
node: GSoC Proposal - Email Notifications Overhaul
author: warren
created_at: 2017-03-19 16:38:51 +0000
timestamp: 1489941531
nid: 14004
cid: 16409
uid: 1
---



[warren](../profile/warren) replying to: [GSoC Proposal - Email Notifications Overhaul](../notes/Khamba/03-13-2017/gsoc-proposal-email-notifications-overhaul)

----
Hi, [@Khamba](/profile/Khamba) - thanks; I was thinking some of these could be broken up a bit more -- for example, the one on "Sign Up Offers to auto subscribe you to the tags you were looking at - 2 weeks" would involve some way to store tags you've looked at. Would this be done on the server side, the client side, or what? Maybe for privacy reasons it could be client side in JavaScript, using `localStorage`, that way it's not like we are spying on what people read. 

If so, what would you need to get this information -- some method like `getNodeTags()` which returns an array of tagnames, I guess? And a way to histogram them, to find the most common of them, like `mostCommonTags()` which returns an array. 

For `Improve tag subscriptions when tags are added late - 2 weeks`, I've been thinking about a simple way to start, which could be to have an ActiveJob that runs every `period` which collects all the content that's been created or updated in the period that has the right tags, and assembles an email. We could test this out without ActiveJob first -- just a User method like `user.getTaggedContentSince(tagnames, start(, end))` or something. That could be unit tested, which is nice. 

For the notifications interface, are there examples from other sites that work well, that we could look to as an example? Maybe a screenshot or sketch could help. 

Thank you!