---
node: Developing Image Sequencer as a Library
author: ccpandhare
created_at: 2017-03-19 20:03:20 +0000
timestamp: 1489953800
nid: 14035
cid: 16412
uid: 503543
---



[ccpandhare](../profile/ccpandhare) replying to: [Developing Image Sequencer as a Library](../notes/ccpandhare/03-18-2017/developing-image-sequencer-as-a-library)

----
[@warren](/profile/warren)

Regarding the GPU, yes. Some users may not have a GPU. We'll have to use a JS fallback for then. That shouldn't be a problem, as, the module which I am thinking of implementing, GPU.js, does that by itself.


> Inside each module, I guess?

Not really. Modules like GreenChannel, NdviRed won't need one as the matrix calculations are done in PixelManipulation.js. So, implementing GPU-backed calculations in PixelManipulation.js would suffice for quite a few modules. And for the rest, as you said, integration will have to be done in every module.

> Likewise, JSON should be optional

Yes. That's what I was trying to say. I guess my explanation isn't good enough. Maybe I should rephrase parts of my proposal a bit.


As far as statefulness is concerned : I know -- the idea of 'Image Sequencer' does make us intuitively think of a stateless model. Like the current one. But, that is something which works for the demo, because we inject a DIV in the DOM when we call `draw()`. This is something which wouldn't work for other implementations. The aim of Image Sequencer is to enable the user to make comparisons and document different steps. So if we are able to only provide the last step, it would take away Image Sequencer's USP. So we have two options : 1) Store the output for every step. 2) Run the sequencer whenever we want an intermediate output. The second option has a greater time complexity. So In my opinion, storing the output after every step is a good solution. What do you think about this?


>Testing

Yes, I am working on that part now. I am trying out the node.js based implementation and fixing it up. I'm sure we'll be able to fix that issue. Testing shall be an important part, undoubtedly.


>Multiple image handling

Image Sequencer promises to run a sequence over one or more images. Currently, for one input image, one instance of Image Sequencer is needed. I feel this could be better implemented by storing all the images in one module itself. Using the same `steps[]` array and same functions.