---
node: Bot for Publiclab
author: ryzokuken
created_at: 2017-03-21 19:29:04 +0000
timestamp: 1490124544
nid: 13972
cid: 16429
uid: 493113
---



[ryzokuken](../profile/ryzokuken) replying to: [Bot for Publiclab](../notes/ryzokuken/02-28-2017/bot-for-publiclab)

----
[@warren](/profile/warren) [@stevie](/profile/stevie) [@liz](/profile/liz) Added the design guidelines. Please look into them and give feedback whenever your schedule permits. 

[@warren](/profile/warren): I would look deeper into Github's API for these sample use cases (as they are pretty general use cases, I highly doubt that we would skip any of these in the original implementation). Meanwhile, let's see if the required functionality is available for the Publiclab API, and work on the calls that we need to make but which do not already exist. 

Regarding the authentication part, isn't the API public, or does one need an Auth token (maybe something like OAuth tokens) in order to make requests? If so, then we would need to indeed make an Auth token for the bot and allow a sufficiently large number of calls (per day, if that's our metric) so that the bot functions properly. In that case, we would store our Auth key along with the other Auth keys (we would need OAuth tokens from Github, Gitter, Wikipedia, Google and any other services we use) in the environment file. 

Otherwise, if the API is totally public without restrictions, I don't see why we would require an API key. An advantage of dropping the API key model (among a sea of disadvantages) that I would like to mention would be that a contributor would need to also register for API keys for all these services. Every single API key that we manage to cut down would slightly decrease the time and work required for setting up the project.

Thanks