---
node: A kit to design your own formaldehyde experiment?
author: zengirl2
created_at: 2017-03-22 19:00:07 +0000
timestamp: 1490209207
nid: 13913
cid: 16436
uid: 423961
---



[zengirl2](../profile/zengirl2) replying to: [A kit to design your own formaldehyde experiment?](../notes/warren/02-09-2017/a-kit-to-design-your-own-formaldehyde-experiment)

----
This is all very interesting [@warren](/profile/warren) and [@nshapiro](/profile/nshapiro) because initially on reading the report with the air device and hearing the user's symptoms had improved, I wondered about the accuracy. So, the idea of improving the experiment itself is great. As far as containers, I have been collecting notes on Pinterest for waterproof household type items for garden plantings. These range from boots (yes, boots!) to pouches and everything in-between. Nick had mentioned some of the buy-in for the device was based on looks. So, I started thinking of ways to help hide all the tubing and pump, as well as eliminate the need to put a hole in the container. So far my fave method would be a container in a container. The inner container would be a practical easy-to-find item like a 64 oz. plastic soda bottle that has been cut down. It could be placed in another larger container to house the pump, like a basket or larger ceramic pot. When Nick and I discussed this, certainly one of the issues is adding more toxins to the equation like plastic, however, like the Riffle, plastic is easy to obtain and can be cut down to create the correct size needed. Having people supply their own container also eliminates the need to ship it in kit form. So, I will work on putting together a field note with pics. 