---
cid: 1643
node: [intensity calibration](../notes/tomh/9-19-2012/intensity-calibration)
nid: 3886
created_at: 2012-10-13 13:39:41 +0000
timestamp: 1350135581
uid: 995
author: [JoshMc](../profile/JoshMc)
---

Hey, I'm jumping in a little late here, but I had a thought.  Someone can correct me if I'm wrong, but I think webcams automatically scale brightness is a logarithmic way, so that the data they send to your computer is actually not linear.  What this means is, for example, a value of "10" on the webcam is <strong>not</strong> twice as bright as a value of "5".  I know that for digital cameras at least, the CCD itself responds to light in a linear way,  but the firmware on the camera automatically corrects the data to resemble the human eye's response to light, which is more logarithmic than linear (the eye's sensitivity increases in low light situations and decreases in bright situations).  Some digital cameras have the option to save a RAW file, which does not have these adjustments made, instead of a JPEG, which does have the adjustments made.  

So, without finding a way to correct for the logarithmic data coming from the webcam, taking just one calibration measurement won't actually let us make absolute comparisons of the intensity of a light source.  

If we're going to use the webcam alone to try to get accurate data on the intensity of a source, we need to find out if it's possible to get the raw intensity data from the webcam instead of the scaled data.  If that's not possible, to calibrate a webcam would require taking a lot of measurements over a large range of brightnesses, all from light sources of known intensities, then using those measurements to find the equation the webcam uses to scale the data.  From there you could use that equation to convert the scaled data coming from the webcam back to it's raw form.

That's the more difficult approach.  The other approach I can think of would be a bit more expensive, but should be easier.  It would be possible to add a small photocell to the spectrometer, that would have the purpose of measuring the intensity of the light.  It's possible to find photocells for only a couple dollars that have a linear response to light either in the voltage they produce or the resistance they give.  The photocell could be placed somewhere inside the spectrometer with wires leading to somewhere on the outside to measure the voltage or resistance of the cell when the light hits it.  The photocell itself wouldn't be that expensive, but it would also require the use of a multimeter.  If you don't already have one, you can get a cheap on for $15 but they are of questionable accuracy, and a reliable one can cost significantly more than we might want to spend on this.  On the other hand, if you already have one, the expense for just the photocell won't be too much.  I do know that this method works, because I've already constructed a box with just a photocell to measure the intensity of light sources.  Once the photocell is in the spectrometer, we would have to take a reading for the intensity of the source from the photocell and have the spectrometer software apply that reading to the data coming from the webcam.  

So anyway, if we're going to use our spectrometers to get accurate intensity data, we'd need to find some way of getting around the logarithmic scaling of the webcam.

[JoshMc](../profile/JoshMc) replying to: [intensity calibration](../notes/tomh/9-19-2012/intensity-calibration)

