---
node: Modified MOBIUS with PL red filter
author: cfastie
created_at: 2017-03-25 14:43:06 +0000
timestamp: 1490452986
nid: 11979
cid: 16453
uid: 554
---



[cfastie](../profile/cfastie) replying to: [Modified MOBIUS with PL red filter](../notes/RQ-05/06-15-2015/modified-mobius-with-pl-red-filter)

----
1. The red filters typically used do not transmit much green light, so the green channel captures mostly NIR. Some yellow filters pass red and green, so the green channel captures green light. But some green light will also end up in the blue channel so the NIR channel will be more contaminated than with a red filter. You can read more and buy a piece of [Wratten 15 filter here](http://kaptery.com/product/wratten-15-filter).
2. NDVI and NDWI rely on the difference between the visible and NIR reflection from foliage, so visible and NIR light must be measured in the same way. Converted consumer cameras are much less sensitive to NIR light than to visible light, and the filters used might not pass exactly the same amount of visible and NIR. So using the brightness values in the visible and NIR channels to compute NDVI will not produce meaningful results. A clever but crude way to adjust the relative brightness of the visible and NIR channels is to apply a custom white balance to the camera that exaggerates the NIR channel.  If brightness in the NIR channel is sufficiently increased, the NDVI values can be in the correct range.  
3. It's a little harder to make a filter that passes blue and NIR but none of the green and red in between. So the typical blue filters used probably have more contamination of visible light in the NIR channel (red) compared to the typical red filters used. Depending on the filter, the green channel can capture green and NIR.
4. [This thread cites two academic articles](https://groups.google.com/forum/#!msg/plots-infrared/aJhM30D6bUM/ZYuNm7gAHQAJ;context-place=msg/plots-infrared/aJhM30D6bUM/ZYuNm7gAHQAJ) about DIY NDVI cameras.

Chris
