---
node: intensity calibration
author: Tom_H
created_at: 2012-10-13 16:30:53 +0000
timestamp: 1350145853
nid: 3886
cid: 1645
uid: 43352
---



[Tom_H](../profile/Tom_H) replying to: [intensity calibration](../notes/tomh/9-19-2012/intensity-calibration)

----
What we are really talking about here is the change in sensitivity with wavelength.  The sensor elements of the webcam  have some inherent sensitivity vs. wavelength relationship, and firmware then converts that to the human eye sensitivity curve (the photopic curve: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Luminosity_function) which has peak sensitivity around 555 nm.  In addition to that, the rgb pixels will probably be scaled according to to the eye's rgb receptors (cone cell) sensitivity functions.  So, for a continuous spectrum that is flat (lambda vs. intensity) the webcam spectrometer would show a curve that approximates the photopic curve.  What we want to do here is determine the factors needed to apply to each wavelength in order to get the curve back to the flat line of the hypothetical source.
  To know the relationship of signal vs. radiant power received by the webcam can be done by using a dye solution and doing dilutions of that solution.  Transmission vs. concentration of the dye can be calculated easily using Beer's law (also called the Beer-Lambert law): http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Beer%27s_law  

I think what JoshMc is leading to is absolute radiant energy and that leads to a more complex instrument called a spectroradiometer, and for that you probably need to know the acceptance angle of the slit, and getting there requires another level of expertise.  Maybe someone with experience calibrating spectroradiometers can chime in here.  Also, does the PLOTS community need absolute numbers?