---
node: Bot for Publiclab
author: warren
created_at: 2017-03-28 17:23:45 +0000
timestamp: 1490721825
nid: 13972
cid: 16495
uid: 1
---



[warren](../profile/warren) replying to: [Bot for Publiclab](../notes/ryzokuken/02-28-2017/bot-for-publiclab)

----
Hi, [@ryzokuken](/profile/ryzokuken) - i was thinking of another idea for bots, tell me what you think:

A bot that:

* reads new questions
* finds most relevant keywords from title and body of questions (ones that are least generic)
* finds similar tags (possibly manipulating the keywords so that "photo" could also search for tags related to "camera" for example, or "spectrometer" for "spectral"... though starting with simple manipulations in the first version)
* asking if the asker has searched for these keywords, linking to them with `[keyword](/tag/keyword)`
* possibly displaying a grid of similar questions with an inline grid of them by tag, like: `[questions:spectrometer]`
* specifically helping them tag the question and notify people who've subscribed to answer questions on that topic, possibly either by adding the tag and re-triggering notifications, or by making the use of `#tagname` inline trigger notifications? We'd have to think about that.

All these interactions could happen in comments (and possibly answers if we find a very close match?).

Since this interaction could simply happen in the comments on a question, i think you could mock it up by editing an existing comment in your browser. Did you know you can use this javascript snippet in your console to make HTML content directly editable like rich text? `window.document.body.contentEditable = true;` -- You can even make a bookmark to the URL `javascript:window.document.body.contentEditable = true;` and use it. I find it very helpful for making mockups, because you can copy/paste HTML and type new content in, even copying things like buttons, for example. Maybe it'd help [@stevie](/profile/stevie) and me see a fully imagined script such as the ones you've outlined above, or the one I just suggested, using this technique, in a screenshot. What do you think?

Thanks for all your hard work on this!