---
node: Wiki Discussion
author: Ashan
created_at: 2017-03-29 16:27:09 +0000
timestamp: 1490804829
nid: 14010
cid: 16519
uid: 502016
---



[Ashan](../profile/Ashan) replying to: [Wiki Discussion](../notes/Ashan/03-13-2017/wiki-discussion)

----
Thanks [@warren](/profile/warren) for the feedback. 

1. A suggestion can be applied to a certain set words to indicate that it's good that they are changed like in the suggestion. ex: 
      the `[bright][suggest:1234] vivid [/suggest]` eyed fox was looking for food.
So here instead of word `bright`, a users suggests word `vivid`. This is a one type of suggestion.

2. A suggestion may be added by a user to indicate that suggested words should be added to that place. ex:
    the bright eyed `[suggest:1234] hungry [/suggest]` fox was looking for food.
So, here there is no selection of words. User just suggests that word `hungry` should be inserted there. Notice that there are no `[ ]` symbols to indicate that this suggestion is not attached to any words.

3. A suggestion may be added by a user to indicate that a certain word/words should be removed. That can be done as following example.
     the `[bright eyed] [suggest:1234] [/suggest]`  fox was looking for food.
So in here, the suggestion applies to word `bright eyed`, and suggested word is a blank space. So this indicates the suggestion of removal of `bright eyed` words.

So to select words that a suggestion applies, I thought of use of `[` and `]` symbols is good. Is it good? or should I think of another way?

Thanks again for your great feedbacks, they are very helpful for me to think in correct path.
