---
cid: 16517
node: [Omniauth and Gamification of contributing to Public Lab](../notes/vaibhavgeek/03-28-2017/omniauth-and-gamification-of-contributing-to-public-lab)
nid: 14066
created_at: 2017-03-29 14:14:42 +0000
timestamp: 1490796882
uid: 1
author: [warren](../profile/warren)
---

Hi, [@vaibhavgeek](/profile/vaibhavgeek) - thanks for your proposal; can you articulate the benefit of your proposed alternative OAuth architecture? I'm not that familiar with it, so what are the pros and cons? 

As for the gamification, there are some powerful ideas there. One thing we've noticed is that different kinds of people prefer different types of value systems, and we've specifically chosen Barnstars and likes as a way to give credit and appreciation. http://publiclab.org/wiki/barnstars

I'd like to be careful about what's called gamification. I think that we are definitely looking to get people to sign up to answer each others' questions, and to try to break up and work on pieces of each others' projects. But I wonder if we need to look carefully at some of the geographic features as a place to innovate, rather than badging -- for example, how could we best show people who's nearby, and what projects they might be able to get involved in? How could we help people quantify and understand their own level of involvement and set of accomplishments? 

These are broad questions, but I think the best way to engage with them is to look at some of the ideas we've posted on our ideas page and to see how those systems overlap with the kinds of incentive structures you're interested in. Does that make sense? Thank you so much for your proposal!

[warren](../profile/warren) replying to: [Omniauth and Gamification of contributing to Public Lab](../notes/vaibhavgeek/03-28-2017/omniauth-and-gamification-of-contributing-to-public-lab)

