---
node: Classroom Flame Spectroscopy
author: warren
created_at: 2012-10-14 16:08:17 +0000
timestamp: 1350230897
nid: 4406
cid: 1654
uid: 1
---



[warren](../profile/warren) replying to: [Classroom Flame Spectroscopy](../notes/straylight/10-14-2012/classroom-flame-spectroscopy)

----
Hi Stu - sorry, the best way to do inline images is to upload them as attachments, then use HTML IMG tags, a bit cumbersome. We're working on a smoother/better/more intuitive posting system but it's a bit of a big project. 

I was so glad to see this post! The setup looks fantastic. I'm eager to try it out. I got a butane kitchen torch which I hope will be hot enough. Need to buy butane to fill it with. We used a similar type of burner to do sodium tests at LEAFFEST a few weeks ago.

What percent were the solutions? 

As for the online database, we're working on a couple different ways to do this from your offline setup. Right now, you can upload raw data as image files at spectralworkbench.org, but you do have to re-calibrate them. I can add a "use recent calibration" checkbox to the image upload form to streamline this if it's interesting to you.

Second, I've been toying with the idea of making an "offline folder" -- just all the HTML pages and Javascripts in a folder, which you can open and run on your machine, as if it were a website. This ought to work, and all I have to do is add a "save data locally" button so it doesn't rely on the online uploading function. Then you'd be able to upload the images as described above. The main advantage here is that the interface of the web-based version is much smoother and nicer than that of the older Java based version. 

I'll check back in once that progresses a bit. Great video! Thanks!