---
node: Getting your WheeStat set up.
author: ghing
created_at: 2017-04-11 05:26:32 +0000
timestamp: 1491888392
nid: 10658
cid: 16570
uid: 505525
---



[ghing](../profile/ghing) replying to: [Getting your WheeStat set up.](../notes/JSummers/07-04-2014/getting-your-wheestat-set-up)

----
I ordered a WheeStat from the Public Lab Store.  The board is stamped "WheeStat 5".  I'm running Ubuntu 16.10 (64-bit) and just wanted to share the easy steps I took to run the software.

* I didn't have to install any system software, although other information about the Tiva C Series LaunchPad controller suggests that you might need to install [libusb](http://packages.ubuntu.com/yakkety/libusb-0.1-4).  This was already installed on my system.  I checked by running: `dpkg -l | grep libusb`.
* The USB drive that came with my kit only contained the Windows executable for the Processing code for WheeStat GUI.  I cloned the [WheeStat6_0d repository](https://github.com/SmokyMountainScientific/WheeStat6_0d) from GitHub.  
* There is a shell script that can be run to open the GUI program, `application.linux64/Wh
eeStat6_0d`, but I first had to make it executable by running `chmod u+x ./application.linux64/Wh
eeStat6_0d`.
* I connected the controller to my computer using the USB cable.  I confirmed that the computer detected the controller by running `dmesg`.  This is the output related to connecting the controller:

    [18390.432107] cdc_acm: USB Abstract Control Model driver for USB modems and ISD
N adapters 
    [18456.074920] usb 1-2: USB disconnect, device number 7 
    [18468.801784] usb 1-2: new full-speed USB device number 8 using xhci_hcd 
    [18468.986832] usb 1-2: New USB device found, idVendor=1cbe, idProduct=00fd 
    [18468.986851] usb 1-2: New USB device strings: Mfr=1, Product=2, SerialNumber=3 
    [18468.986863] usb 1-2: Product: In-Circuit Debug Interface 
    [18468.986873] usb 1-2: Manufacturer: Texas Instruments 
    [18468.986882] usb 1-2: SerialNumber: 0E20AEDE 
    [18468.989924] cdc_acm 1-2:1.0: ttyACM0: USB ACM device 

The last line of output tells me that the device will be available at `/dev/ttyACM0`.

* Finally, I ran the GUI software.  I had to run it using `sudo` in order for the device to be found, i.e. `sudo ./application.linux64/WheeStat6_0d`.