---
node: Sizing particles in microscope images at Portland Science Hackday
author: richardbowman
created_at: 2017-04-18 09:02:44 +0000
timestamp: 1492506164
nid: 13533
cid: 16587
uid: 470739
---



[richardbowman](../profile/richardbowman) replying to: [Sizing particles in microscope images at Portland Science Hackday](../notes/mathew/10-07-2016/sizing-images-at-portland-science-hackday)

----
Hello, "Cambridge" here (though I've actually moved now).  You're right, a laser diode would certainly get rid of the chromatic issues.  I suspect aligning the condenser better (v5.16, now in beta, makes it possible to adjust the condenser alignment) would also go a long way to fixing that.  The trouble with using a laser is that coherent light imaging comes with other problems - any stray light, or any dirt on the optics, tends to cause "speckle" that makes the image look nasty and causes trouble for a lot of image analysis methods.  A single-colour LED (I recommend green) would reduce chromatic aberration without giving you speckle.  On the other hand, if you're careful about dirt, and you do the right holographic reconstruction, a laser diode illumination (which amounts to in-line holography of your sample) should give you lots of nice information about your sample, particularly if you know beforehand that it's silica.  Better than a laser diode would be a slightly broken (i.e. not entirely coherent) laser diode.  These are often called "superluminescent diodes" and sold for ~100x the price of laser diodes, and essentially they are narrow bandwidth (1-10nm spectral width) partially coherent sources.  If somebody can work out how to do that cheaply (e.g. by hacking the electronics for a laser diode) it would be an awesome tool for all sorts of microscopy.