---
node: Planning for a new Riffle conductivity circuit
author: pdhixenbaugh
created_at: 2017-05-04 17:50:22 +0000
timestamp: 1493920222
nid: 13374
cid: 16696
uid: 459085
---



[pdhixenbaugh](../profile/pdhixenbaugh) replying to: [Planning for a new Riffle conductivity circuit](../notes/pdhixenbaugh/08-20-2016/planning-for-a-new-riffle-conductivity-circuit)

----
Hello [@rfdave](/profile/rfdave) ! I would be interested in getting this rolling! Thank you so much for providing that link to the design! I think there are many folks on public lab who have this expertise in hardware making and science, and I hope we can develop this together. One thing that happened after I posted this note is I became aware of [@bhickman](/profile/bhickman) (Ben Hickman)'s design here: https://publiclab.org/notes/bhickman/05-09-2016/conductivity-and-temperature-meter

This seems like it is already one solution to my questions. I wonder if it could be simplified in conductivity cell design so that it was easier to construct, and can me optimized for stream conductivity measurements. (Maybe it doesn't care about low conductivity measurements, but accurately measures a spike in conductivity, or maybe you make two sensors, one that measures typical conductivity well, and the other one measures the spike in conductivity well. Or maybe, with the range in conductivities we're looking at, we only need one cell constant to do both.

I see that your background is in electrical engineering -- I'm wondering how the Analog Devices' circuit compares to Ben Hickman's design in terms of complexity?

I think there may be two endgoals for designs here:

1. A conductivity probe that is able to be assembled by an end-user with limited experience and access to hardware (DIY solution)

2. An inexpensive, good, troublefree design that is able to be assembled on a circuit board in quantity and distributed to users.

The impatient part of me wants to focus on an easy, DIY solution that people can start building on their own, and start measuring conductivity in streams ASAP. But the better long term solution might be to work on a design that's an open hardware circuit board for measuring conductivity board that could be assembled by a factory.

What are your thoughts so far?
