---
cid: 1669
node: [Video/Audio interface, Web page & Microcontroller](../notes/donblair/10-14-2012/videoaudio-interface-web-page-microcontroller)
nid: 4407
created_at: 2012-10-16 16:27:12 +0000
timestamp: 1350404832
uid: 43651
author: [donblair](../profile/donblair)
---

Hey Mathew -- Nice links!  You're totally right about video analysis being processor-intensive; Jeff's suggestion to consider audio first made a lot of sense to me.  

So last night, Ben Gamari and I hooked up an Arduino running the SoftModem library to the mic jack of my laptop.  SoftModem transmits data by representing in binary, then sending sound of two different frequencies to encode "0" and "1".  I guess this sort of encoding is called FSK -- http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Frequency-shift_keying  -- I'm just learning about all this cool stuff now!  We wrote some quick code to transmit the number "21" once per second, and then used Audacity to record the sound from the laptop mic.  I took a sample of three of these transmissions, and slowed down the third one a lot.  The resultant sound is here: http://www.pvos.cc/audio/softmodemTest.mp3

SoftModem translates "21" into its binary form to transmit it; "21" in binary is "010101". SoftModem also adds a initial sound to each transmission so that the receiver knows to expect something.  So what you hear is first, that long initial sound; then, the two chirps corresponding to "21" being broadcast at regular speed; then the third chirp has been slowed down a lot, so you can hear the initial handshake sound, then the "010101" pattern.  

Now a next step might be to find a way to *decode* this using HTML5 / a browser, so that any laptop / smartphone with an audio jack + modern browser can get data from an Arduino.  FUN!

[donblair](../profile/donblair) replying to: [Video/Audio interface, Web page & Microcontroller](../notes/donblair/10-14-2012/videoaudio-interface-web-page-microcontroller)

