---
node: A kit to design your own formaldehyde experiment?
author: pdhixenbaugh
created_at: 2017-05-04 17:27:58 +0000
timestamp: 1493918878
nid: 13913
cid: 16695
uid: 459085
---



[pdhixenbaugh](../profile/pdhixenbaugh) replying to: [A kit to design your own formaldehyde experiment?](../notes/warren/02-09-2017/a-kit-to-design-your-own-formaldehyde-experiment)

----
Hey sorry for being so late to the discussion here! I recently moved to a place where indoor air quality is a more pressing issue. I have a few questions.

1. How strong is the research that formaldehyde causes health ailments? 
2. How strong is the research that *this particular plant design* reduces formaldehyde?

If we know that the effect is pretty strong, I feel like it's more important to work on the design and getting it out there; and it could be an interesting add-on later to give people the ability to run a study on themselves. But if I'm putting myself in the shoes of someone who wants to buy this -- I care more that it works than making a scientific study out of it -- and I think that's where the ethics came in. Also -- are the health conditions easily measurable (I.e., how often are you coughing/sneezing vs. a more vague 'how do you feel'?). If I was going to design a study to assess health impacts, I think one I'd be more comfortable with might be having two plants running, where one is always pulling air through, and the other one is sometimes off, sometimes on -- so you're at least always getting some health benefit, and measuring how much).

And if the research is already pretty strong that this works -- i think the effort is best spent making the device work better! :D And it looks like that's what this research note discussion turned into!

If I'm looking for the current designs -- either a 'tried and tested' version, or the current bleeding edge innovations, where would I look?

Thanks,
Patrick