---
cid: 16720
node: [Mobius NDVI](../notes/cfastie/04-26-2014/mobius-ndvi)
nid: 10369
created_at: 2017-05-08 15:36:33 +0000
timestamp: 1494257793
uid: 554
author: [cfastie](../profile/cfastie)
---

`Do you think i need the targets of known spectral reflectivity in the same bands that will be used to compute NDVI or it can be tested with any materials as mentioned by Ned.`

Any target will have reflectance (or none) at each wavelength. Ideally you would know the reflectance at each wavelength, including the band you will use to compute NDVI. If you measure the reflectance at higher and lower wavelengths, you could interpolate the values in between. The ideal target material will have the same reflectance at all wavelengths (a flat curve) so the same value can be used regardless of the band used to compute NDVI. But inexpensive target materials rarely have flat reflectance curves, so it is important to have a measurement in the band you will use for NDVI. If the reflectance curve for the target is not close to flat within the band you plan to use for NDVI, more than one measurement within that band might be important.

There are lots of types of validation, and different ways to validate. One way is to find recent satellite (e.g., Landsat) NDVI data for a big agricultural field near you and compare your results. Or you can measure the radiance (light energy) in the wavelength bands you use for NDVI and compare the resulting NDVI with your camera system. Or compare your results with a camera system or other NDVI system that has been calibrated.

Chris


[cfastie](../profile/cfastie) replying to: [Mobius NDVI](../notes/cfastie/04-26-2014/mobius-ndvi)

