---
cid: 16731
node: [Google Summer of Code 2017 - and a call for community mentors](../notes/warren/05-04-2017/google-summer-of-code-2017-and-a-call-for-community-mentors)
nid: 14162
created_at: 2017-05-10 06:06:55 +0000
timestamp: 1494396415
uid: 468341
author: [david-days](../profile/david-days)
---

Hey, All,

Just a quick introduction of myself to the teams here.

I am a professional software developer who's been working primarily in the "integration" space.  For the most part, this means that I take whatever system(s) a business has on hand or is buying and try to make them do things they weren't designed to do.  :-)  Even if it's not the most glamorous work in the world, you get to spend a lot of time working with the deep underbelly of business requirements and technology to get things done.  Be it personnel records, search systems, chat, or UI and config systems, it's the kind of work that forces developers to either specialize very narrowly or try to get very good at being an all-around handyman.  

For GSoC 2017, I'm going to be helping out with the Email Notification and Wiki Discussion projects.  I'm also going to try to fill in some of the gaps on the RESTful API services, in order to get things up to speed for some of the other projects.  As GSoC moves along, I'll try to keep up with how everything is going; if anyone or any project needs a RESTful service or needs one adjusted, just let me know and I'll try to help out.

I'm really looking forward to working with everyone.  Feel free to get in touch with me any time.

[david-days](../profile/david-days) replying to: [Google Summer of Code 2017 - and a call for community mentors](../notes/warren/05-04-2017/google-summer-of-code-2017-and-a-call-for-community-mentors)

