---
cid: 16741
node: [Google Summer of Code 2017 - and a call for community mentors](../notes/warren/05-04-2017/google-summer-of-code-2017-and-a-call-for-community-mentors)
nid: 14162
created_at: 2017-05-10 20:42:03 +0000
timestamp: 1494448923
uid: 468506
author: [ananyo2012](../profile/ananyo2012)
---

Hi all ! My name is Ananya Maiti and I have been a GSoC 2016 student with PublicLab. Since then I have been in close touch with the community. I have worked on the _plots2_ repo and so I am well aware of its codebase and functionalities. Be it any problem regarding _plots2_ or understanding Ruby, I can help you to figure out the solution. You can also discuss any architectural or design related issues with me or general GSoC related queries and I will be happy to give you feedback on it.

I love working on software projects and Open source and learning along with fellow contributors. I believe Open source is the platform to freely learn software so don't be hesitant to ask out anytime you are stuck  somewhere.

One aim of our community is to make it easier for first timers to contribute to Open Source and so we take time to make `first-timers-only` issues and help those who are taking up those issues. So in the course of GSoC we will try to develop this further and help out any newcomers who find our projects.

For GSoC 2017 I am mentoring for the Bot Project and will also help out with any issues related to plots2. You can find me at github with `@ananyo2012` username and I will be the active in the publiclab chat channel so you can contact me anytime you want. Looking forward to work with you all this summer!  

 

[ananyo2012](../profile/ananyo2012) replying to: [Google Summer of Code 2017 - and a call for community mentors](../notes/warren/05-04-2017/google-summer-of-code-2017-and-a-call-for-community-mentors)

