---
node: Video/Audio interface, Web page & Microcontroller
author: donblair
created_at: 2012-10-17 16:48:54 +0000
timestamp: 1350492534
nid: 4407
cid: 1677
uid: 43651
---



[donblair](../profile/donblair) replying to: [Video/Audio interface, Web page & Microcontroller](../notes/donblair/10-14-2012/videoaudio-interface-web-page-microcontroller)

----
Jeff -- WHERE did you find that link?!  I think you just solved the problem!

Cov -- I totally agree, and actually it took me a while to convince Ben that spending any time at all on this audio comm protocol was a good idea :)  Firefox OS is really exciting; once web apps can access USB, then we're off to the races.  Fully featured scientific web applications are going to require high-speed data transfer, and that's really where we should be heading.  

The reasons (such as they are) that I'd give for justifying this sort of tinkering in the meantime are:
1) If we can get audio comm working, we can start prototyping and using the relevant web app software now.  Having working prototypes will help speed and motivate the web app development.
2) There are currently lots of high school students in classrooms with desktop computers for which even the teacher doesn't have permission to install software.  Audio comm + web apps could circumvent this problem;
3) This sort of hack demonstrates that communication doesn't have to occur via industrially-established protocols / equipment.  I.e., end users can more readily recognize that they don't have to be at the mercy of the telecom industry's priorities / agendas for how we use the hardware we ostensibly own;
4) I felt like Jodie Foster in "Contact" when we saw the "010101" in our Audacity-captured audio signal.  So [#4](/n/4) is "You can feel like Jodie Foster in 'Contact'".

All that as an aside, I totally agree with you -- we also should work with Mozilla to push for browser USB access.  It's going to be so cool when that happens.

I'm still trying to wrap my mind around how awesome it is that these web apps allow you to "right-click view source".  Truly open source, copy-paste-modify.  Crazy cool.  