---
node: Calibrating DIY NIR cameras – part 1
author: nedhorning
created_at: 2017-05-22 12:39:37 +0000
timestamp: 1495456777
nid: 9509
cid: 16794
uid: 133
---



[nedhorning](../profile/nedhorning) replying to: [Calibrating DIY NIR cameras – part 1](../notes/nedhorning/10-21-2013/calibrating-diy-nir-cameras-part-1)

----
Hi Suman, I haven't tried applying calibration coefficients in any sort of rigorous way to adjust white balance. All of my calibration work has been done with post-processing using my photo monitoring plugin. You could experiment with white balance adjustments using your spectrometer data but I'm not sure how much success you will have. It would be great if you can figure out some sort of relationship between the regression coefficients and white balance settings. Chris Fastie has written quite a bit about his adventures adjusting white balance using colored targets so if you want to experiment with white balance settings I strongly suggest you read his research notes. 

For the reference wavelength you can look at the spectral transmittance curves for the filter you are using and pick a wavelength that is roughly in the middle of the band-pass parts of the curve. The band pass width for many filters is quite wide so you could try to take an average but that's probably not worth the effort. It's best if the reflectance samples have a fairly flat spectral curve so you don't have to worry too much about accuracy and precision in selecting the reference wavelength.

If you do some tests you should report back to Public Labs to let us know about your experience - even if the method doesn't work as you had hoped. 

All the best, 

Ned