---
cid: 1679
node: [Video/Audio interface, Web page & Microcontroller](../notes/donblair/10-14-2012/videoaudio-interface-web-page-microcontroller)
nid: 4407
created_at: 2012-10-17 21:39:01 +0000
timestamp: 1350509941
uid: 43651
author: [donblair](../profile/donblair)
---

Jeff -- 

-- Hellschreiber.js:  Holy (sic) guacamole!   A few years ago, a physicist presented a Darpa-funded project at UMass.  Darpa's request was: build us a system that would allow for long-distance communication after an EMP attack -- i.e., if all one's electronics were kaput.  His solution involved making lots of little droplets of chemicals that underwent oscillatory chemical reactions that could be controlled, so that the material would show as a dark dot, or a light dot -- basically, a system could communicate in morse code visually, as long as one had a telescope and an array of these things (I guess).  I need to wrap my head around the hellschreiber.js project.  I tend to conflate things I shouldn't conflate, but, prima facie (from site explaining the technology), it seems related to me.

-- Morse code encoding / decoding is a great idea.  A lot easier for me to get a handle on, conceptually, than implementing an audio version of an RS-232 protocol or whatnot.  Also: engaging for high school students to see two computers communicating via an easy-to-understand alphabet.  And eminently hackable. 

-- Heck, if you get a browser to understand morse code via audio, you could even communicate with the browser by tapping out the signal yourself!  How cool would *that* be as a demo of physical computing / communication, for students.  And, jeez, I just want to be able to do that.  

-- Just saw the irkit.  Brain. Exploding.  Stop with the cool ideas, for a sec? Whimper.

[donblair](../profile/donblair) replying to: [Video/Audio interface, Web page & Microcontroller](../notes/donblair/10-14-2012/videoaudio-interface-web-page-microcontroller)

