---
cid: 16917
node: [The Mini Pearl Logger](../notes/cfastie/06-09-2017/the-mini-pearl-logger)
nid: 14518
created_at: 2017-06-26 14:41:00 +0000
timestamp: 1498488060
uid: 420750
author: [EdMallon](../profile/EdMallon)
---

I found that pulling up the three lines usually helps the cards sleep faster. Unfortunately this is completely controlled by the sd controller circuitry so you dont really have direct control over it.

Generally, when you put the arduino to sleep with the lowpower library (or any other method) good SD cards should auto-sleep within one second of those three lines going high. However I struggled mightily at the beginning with a whole bunch of crappy sd cards that would not sleep properly.  Now I stick to 128 & 256mb Sandisk cards, which you can only buy used from eBay, and half of the ones you do get are fakes with high sleep current.  The best option is to just try a few and see which ones work best.  I have also had good luck with MUVE music sd cards, which were given away with the cricket music service, but they are weird because they are 4gb cards with 3gb hidden by crickets music encryption. (so they sell cheap on eBay because no one wants them) However they were made by Sandisk, so they usually sleep ok. I've also seen cards wake up with bad voltage regulators, where rail noise keeps waking them up even though the main board is asleep. 

Generally a ds3231, SD & promini combination should sleep at around 0.25mA or less. 

[EdMallon](../profile/EdMallon) replying to: [The Mini Pearl Logger](../notes/cfastie/06-09-2017/the-mini-pearl-logger)

