---
node: An Arduino Based UnderWater Sensor Platform
author: EdMallon
created_at: 2017-06-27 15:10:54 +0000
timestamp: 1498576254
nid: 10026
cid: 16933
uid: 420750
---



[EdMallon](../profile/EdMallon) replying to: [An Arduino Based UnderWater Sensor Platform](../notes/EdMallon/02-11-2014/an-arduino-based-underwater-sensor-platform)

----
I really appreciate the encouragement guys. But I need at least a month before I could do anything about it. We've already turning away other offers because we are at saturation, and I'm worried about opening up the floodgates of people asking me for help before we get the pub out. We're also spinning up several academic collaborations this year from Canada to the Bahamas, and I don't want to leave those people (mostly grad students) hanging.  So I'm content to let things grow slow and steady.  Cross posting sounds fine, but then we run into the fact that I'm always constantly updating the posts with addendums, etc, and older material off the main site get orphaned.  I really don't treat the wordpress site like a blog, it was just the best free hosting service available.

While I don't think this would happen with a dynamic group like P.Lab, as your group are real movers working on a bunch of interesting projects,  but I've let others copy content before ( https://www.wevolver.com/edward.mallon/the-cave-pearl-project/main/description/ ) and the end result is pretty much zero traffic generated.  Heck even Hackaday barely adds 1 reader per day and I sank an enormous amount of time into copying a full description of the project to that site.  So many of those sites are silos that just don't encourage people to reach out the larger world.  So 85% of our traffic comes from google, 10% comes from pinterest, and everything else really doesn't  amount to much.

 I will follow up with you about this stuff later, I promise!