---
cid: 16973
node: [Build KnowFlow: automatic water moniter](../notes/shanlter/06-08-2017/knowflow-automatic-water-meter)
nid: 14511
created_at: 2017-07-04 15:26:16 +0000
timestamp: 1499181976
uid: 492583
author: [rockets](../profile/rockets)
---

I just try translate youyou's answer into english.

Q:The parts for the KnowFlow-esque are going to be ordered from DFRobot and was wondering if you could point me toward the appropriate 'isolation module'? Thanks! Dave
A:isolation model have been developed. Now we are doing the the online store process. Maybe you
 can get the model some time after months. You can find it in our online store www.dfrobot.com
 
Q:using 2 arduino (or 20) doesn't change anything, unless you use galvanically isolated ac/dc converter. even if you use 2 arduino, at least in my scenario, and u want them communicate in some way, you have to use a common ground, that still give me problem of noise.
A:if you use two arduino, but use only one battery is not enough. You have to use two separate battery. If you need comunication with two arduino, use a wireless way such as bluetooth, never use a wire to do that. Or you can use a simple way to do that, test the water in diffent contorer, than you
 don't need use a isolation model.
 
Q:what's the K(cell constant) of the dfrobot probe? i use mine on saltwater aquarium, my target it's 53.065 mS/cm
A: we are using a model which is using in lab. the K is 1.0, test range is under 20ms/cm. in your case 53.065, you have to use a K=10.0 probe which we don't have it. If you can provide more information for us something like what kind of water you want to test? where you use it? that will help us to development.
 
Q:if we can have a real isolator (not just an octocoupler, but something that isolate vcc and gnd too, then everything will be much much easier, even with ph/orp/ec all togheter.
A: Yes, I have to say that our isolation model is a "real isolator".
the isolator is divid into two part, A,isolator power. B,Optocoupler isolation. isolator power is used to isolate the power which are VCC and GND. Optocoupler is used to isolate the analog signal. because of the power and signal are isolated so it is a real isolator.



[rockets](../profile/rockets) replying to: [Build KnowFlow: automatic water moniter](../notes/shanlter/06-08-2017/knowflow-automatic-water-meter)

