---
node: AstroPlant RPi sensory system
author: cfastie
created_at: 2017-07-04 18:23:33 +0000
timestamp: 1499192613
nid: 14609
cid: 16977
uid: 554
---



[cfastie](../profile/cfastie) replying to: [AstroPlant RPi sensory system](../notes/Sidney_AstroPlant/07-03-2017/astroplant-rpi-sensory-system)

----
A simple option might be to turn on some NIR LEDs when the photography happens. The NIR:VIS ratio might not match sunlight, but if you know what it is you can work with it. The goal is to know whether the foliage is absorbing lots of red and reflecting lots of NIR (healthy foliage) or whether there is less "difference" between those two values (less healthy foliage). Because you control the quality of the light, you have an advantage over NDVI in the wild where the intensity and spectrum of sunlight varies through the day and year. Your "NDVI" might not be comparable with Landsat's, but it can still be a very good indicator of how foliage health is changing. If your goal is limited to internal comparisons, you don't have to solve the problem of low sensitivity of cameras to NIR. As long as there is some NIR, and you can measure its intensity well enough to detect changes, you can monitor how the reflection of red and NIR are related to each other. 

If you are going to turn on special NIR lights for the photography, you could also turn on special red lights (and turn off all other lights). Then you really know both the intensity and spectral quality of the light impacting the plants. So instead of Landsat's approach which is to measure the intensity of radiance at narrow wavelength bands in the red and NIR (and filtering out all that other sunlight), you can illuminate the plants with narrow bands of red and NIR. Then the filtering in front of the camera sensor can be less critical because you know all the light is in two narrow bands.