---
cid: 17125
node: [Mapping rugged coastal environments with a Raspberry Pi and a balloon?](../notes/samwf/08-01-2017/mapping-rugged-coastal-environments-with-a-raspberry-pi-and-a-balloon)
nid: 14703
created_at: 2017-08-01 13:25:22 +0000
timestamp: 1501593922
uid: 554
author: [cfastie](../profile/cfastie)
---

This looks like a great project.  
The photos used for structure from motion models should have a few characteristics:

1. They should be high image quality (so the software can find matching control points in overlapping photos). Good photos also makes your final textured model look awesome.
2. There should be multiple photos from different angles of each part of the surface.
3. For quantitative work, each photo should have GPS coordinates of the camera associated with it.

Control points on the ground (GCPs) can replace or augment GPS coordinates of the camera, but placing GCPs along a rocky coastline could be much more difficult than obtaining GPS data. How you scale and georeference the model will depend on the software you use, so figure that out first so you know how important it will be to collect GPS data with each photo.

My first choice for this type of data collection would be a point & shoot camera with integrated GPS. The image quality is much better than a Pi camera. Canon PowerShots with CHDK can shoot at any time interval and be triggered remotely. A used PowerShot S100 with GPS costs $150. The sensor and lens are better than typical PowerShots. The rechargeable battery lasts for as many as 1000 photos. The camera weighs 200 grams.

If the rocky cliffs are steep and craggy, some photos should be taken at an angle instead of downward. For structure from motion, nadir photos might not capture enough detail of vertical or overhanging surfaces. This probably requires a pan/tilt camera mount. 

Flying the camera depends on the landscape and geography. If there are trees everywhere, kites probably won't work. If it is a windy coast, balloons probably won't work. If the wind always blows onshore, kites won't work unless you have a boat. If you live next to the study site, you can wait for the perfect weather conditions, but if the site is remote, much luck is involved in being there when the conditions reward the choice you made for lifting the camera. Drones usually work in a wider range of weather, landscape, and vegetation conditions. Local authorities sometimes impose stricter restrictions on drone flying.

The cameras built into sub $1000 drones are not as good as a PowerShot S100, but some are good enough. A drone always has GPS, but not all of them write the GPS data to each photo. Some drones have gimbals which can point the camera, and some drone controllers have displays which show you what will be in each photo. Some drones can be programmed to fly around and take any series of photos you instruct it to. 

So if I were starting from scratch, I would buy a drone for this project. Since I am not starting from scratch, I would take my four kites (for different wind conditions) and a [Saturn V Rig](http://kaptery.com/product/saturn-v-rig) with S100, and plan to spend lots of time waiting for the right wind. 

A [Saturn V Rig with S100](http://kaptery.com/product/saturn-v-s100) is on sale right now at the KAPtery. Maybe luck is on your side, at least for a while.

Chris



[cfastie](../profile/cfastie) replying to: [Mapping rugged coastal environments with a Raspberry Pi and a balloon?](../notes/samwf/08-01-2017/mapping-rugged-coastal-environments-with-a-raspberry-pi-and-a-balloon)

