---
node: Mapping rugged coastal environments with a Raspberry Pi and a balloon?
author: cfastie
created_at: 2017-08-02 01:24:58 +0000
timestamp: 1501637098
nid: 14703
cid: 17131
uid: 554
---



[cfastie](../profile/cfastie) replying to: [Mapping rugged coastal environments with a Raspberry Pi and a balloon?](../notes/samwf/08-01-2017/mapping-rugged-coastal-environments-with-a-raspberry-pi-and-a-balloon)

----
I think what you are proposing is quite realistic. Depending on the scale of your study areas (e.g., How tall are the cliffs?), this could be accomplished with a good pole. If the landscape feature is bigger, walking a helium balloon around (above and below the cliff) might help. Or if the wind is amenable, walking a kite around. If you can do the whole thing with a pole, pointing the camera is much easier, and it requires less practice, less money, and less waiting for good weather (although photography for sfm is best done on cloudy bright days with minimal shadows). 

Getting photos both near and far from the surface is probably a good idea. How much this helps might depend on the software you are using. Placing GCPs on the surface can also help if the software knows what to do with them. 

I don't have much experience with sfm software, but it seems that the technology is so powerful that a good program can solve many of your problems. Even without GPS or GCPs, walking around with a good camera and maybe a 7m pole and getting lots of good overlapping photos of all points on the surface from different angles is all that is required. If you capture the right set of photos, the software can produce an incredibly good 3D model textured with the photos. The model can be scaled by measuring a few distances between landmarks in the scene. Or if each photo has GPS data and the proper software is used, the model will be scaled when it is made. Done.

You can then view this 3D model from above to trace the "contour" of interest, and view it from the side to see if the same contour is a contour. With the right software, a scaled model can be analysed for surface area and volume. 

Below is a one minute video (no audio) of two 3D models made from kite photos taken by a PowerShot S100. The models were made in ReCap360 which is a free online service (better results are possible with a paid account). The kite photos were not taken with the intention of doing sfm, but were handy examples for illustrating how easy and tolerant the process is. More carefully captured photos would have produced more detailed and accurate models. These models are not scaled but they could have been had I asked the program to scale them. More about these models [here](https://publiclab.org/notes/cfastie/07-26-2016/photos-to-3d).

<iframe width="853" height="480" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/FLHsqdrJ9xw" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe>

So it might be that you should immediately take the best camera you can find and maybe a pole of some kind and go to the beach and take a lot of photos on a bright but cloudy day. Then try some sfm programs and maybe by the end of the day you will be well on your way to graduating.

Chris