---
node: Need your feedback on Tag pages
author: cfastie
created_at: 2017-10-21 02:52:22 +0000
timestamp: 1508554342
nid: 15072
cid: 17552
uid: 554
---



[cfastie](../profile/cfastie) replying to: [Need your feedback on Tag pages](../notes/tommystyles/10-20-2017/need-your-feedback-on-tag-pages)

----
Hi Tommy,

I just learned last month that when you search for a tag that has been used at publiclab.org you can get two different results. If the tag you search for (or the tag you click on) is associated with a wiki page, the search results page you get will have a nice header with the main image and first paragraph of that wiki page. Below that will be the search results which will have any research notes with that tag (I don’t know whether wikis with that tag are included in the search results). If there is no wiki page associated with your tag, you will get just the search results. It is not clear to me how a wiki page gets associated with a tag, because more than one wiki page can have the same tag, and sometimes the title of an associated wiki page is different from the tag (e.g., tag = balloon-mapping, wiki = Balloon & Kite Mapping), and sometimes a power tag (e.g., activities:balloon-mapping) seems to be sufficient to associate the tag with the wiki.  

I assume when you refer to tag pages you are referring to search results which have the nice header from an associated wiki page. If that is so, my thoughts about tag pages are 1) that they are new and maybe not many publiclab users have noticed them, 2) that they are very good-looking and helpful, and 3) they are somewhat mysterious. Most tags don’t lead you to tag pages, and it’s not always clear why.

I would like to know how to deal with the *one tag many wikis* issue. What happens when two wikis have the same tag? I would also like to know how to deal with the *many tags one wiki* issue. If you search for the tag balloon, you don’t get the tag page for balloon-mapping. If you search for the tag skypod, you don’t get the tag page for skypod-gps-logger. Is there a way to redirect searches for the tag skypod to the tag page for skypod-gps-logger?

Thanks for your efforts. Tag pages seem to be a rather obscure topic to start with. Is there a reason that other user experience issues aren’t being addressed instead?

Chris
