---
node: Help with a standard mini-evaluation for assessing software outreach efforts?
author: warren
created_at: 2017-10-25 21:46:38 +0000
timestamp: 1508967998
nid: 15093
cid: 17575
uid: 1
---



[warren](../profile/warren) replying to: [Help with a standard mini-evaluation for assessing software outreach efforts?](../notes/warren/10-25-2017/help-with-a-standard-mini-evaluation-for-assessing-software-outreach-efforts)

----
OK, so I was able to work almost verbatim from the diversity and participation sections from the 2017 Community Survey -- i left a comment about adding 2-3 extra options on just one in Participation. Awesome. 

For the "extra" questions specific to our first-timer outreach, I've narrowed it down to:

1. Why did you choose to work on this project? (check all that apply): _it was friendly, it was easy, I was interested in the project goals, I wanted to build my own skills, someone invited me, it was part of an assignment, I needed something I got through participating, I needed something to work so I helped make/fix/finish it, Other_
2. Do you plan to continue contributing to this project? 	
3. How would you rate the effectiveness of this project's efforts at welcoming new contributors?
4. Was this the first open source project you contributed to?
5. Did you complete a first-timers-only (FTO) issue?
6. Did you make any FTO issues? how many?
7. Did you feel the FTO issues you completed better prepared you to contribute to the project?
8. Did did you feel that creating your own FTO issues for others supported your ability to contribute?
9. Did you feel creating or completing FTO issues made you a better software contributor in general?

This may be a lot, and I think we could skip 8 & 9 to make the survey shorter and easier to complete. 