---
node: Where can I find models for community-university data co-ownership?
author: jjcreedon
created_at: 2017-11-01 17:04:06 +0000
timestamp: 1509555846
nid: 14963
cid: 17614
uid: 515357
---



[jjcreedon](../profile/jjcreedon) replying to: [Where can I find models for community-university data co-ownership?](../notes/nshapiro/09-27-2017/where-can-i-find-models-for-community-university-data-co-ownership)

----
We had our meeting yesterday. It appears that UB management was trying to claim that their policy's (in this case conflict of interest with me being a collaborator on the project and also a plaintiff on a personal suit againstTCC) was trying to "Trump" the DOJ awarded project (which specifically states that this project was to be a collaboration- with me).   the DOJ made it very clear that I am to be included and that UB would have to find away around their policy to include me . Sharing of the data with our organization is a must.  It really struck me how arrogant UB was- I mean they felt that their policy would supersede the the Judges order.   Here is today's response from UB: Please see the link below to UB’s Conflict of Interest policy which satisfies the requirements of all federal granting agencies including the NIH and NSF.
It was written to be consistent with the PHS regulations, NYS Public Officers Law Code of Ethics, and the Research Foundation of SUNY Code of Conduct. Shown in the other links below. UB applies this policy to all sponsored program funding. 
So- my question is- if this is UB's policy they either have to change their policy or withdraw from the study, right?  Another important question came up- we are one year into a 2 yr study, why wasnt this conflict of issue raised at the beginning? Why are they bringing this up now?
http://www.buffalo.edu/administrative-services/policy1/ub-policy-lib/investigator-conflict-interest.html