---
node: Need your feedback on Tag pages
author: warren
created_at: 2017-11-16 17:55:51 +0000
timestamp: 1510854951
nid: 15072
cid: 17707
uid: 1
---



[warren](../profile/warren) replying to: [Need your feedback on Tag pages](../notes/tommystyles/10-20-2017/need-your-feedback-on-tag-pages)

----
Hi, [@liz](/profile/liz) and [@gretchen](/profile/gretchen) - unfortunately, there is a direct link between site slowness and capacity costs and database queries such as required by a non-chronological tag lookup. I spent some time after talking with [@liz](/profile/liz) thinking about creative ways around this, but unfortunately this is one of the main reasons [@bsugar](/profile/bsugar) runs these types of analysis offline, and that we don't crank through this level of calculations as part of the site's functioning. Sadly, even if a calculation took, say, 10 seconds, that would bring the whole site to it's knees. And since there are no limits to the # of tags per page, it's likely that some pages would take 10x or 100x that amount of time, halting other activity on the site while that runs.  (if you google "optimize database slowness", you'll get about a million articles telling you NOT to run queries of this kind)

Not to be apocalyptic! I just want to be clear that I'm not just saying it'd be hard, but that the scope of this is far greater than calculating the most recent values, which is something we can move on immediately.

Barring a database specialist, and a relatively major infrastructure project, this may be a hard limit. I'd be happy to try to plan what initial steps could be on this, but my guess was that you'd be interested in moving forward on this faster than that. 

Sorry to drone on, I just wanted to explain why I'm trying so hard to think around this problem! I fully understand why this function is important, I just don't know how possible it is to implement, so I'm offering what we definitely can do. 