---
cid: 17720
node: [Adafruit Feathers for datalogging](../notes/cfastie/11-14-2017/adafruit-feathers-for-datalogging)
nid: 15181
created_at: 2017-11-19 02:20:27 +0000
timestamp: 1511058027
uid: 554
author: [cfastie](../profile/cfastie)
---

That's a really good point that the En pin on the Feather can disable the regulator and reduce power consumption. We need a table of all the features these various boards have to lower sleep current. I should have mentioned above that the Riffle has two such features that might be unique (please correct if I get these wrong): 

1. There is a physical switch to disable the USB FTDI chip when using battery power. That allows the convenience of USB connection when you want it but whenever the Riffle is powered by battery (so the USB port is not needed), that chip does not waste power.
2. There is a mosfet which can be programmed to power off the microSD socket (another big power hog) when you want to enter a sleep state.

I don't know of other microcontroller boards which have these features. [Kina got the sleep current of a Riffle down to 0.5mA](https://publiclab.org/notes/kinasmith/06-14-2016/fixed-riffle-sd-card-power-consumption) with no sensors attached, which is almost as low as what Ed Mallon gets with his Arduino Pro Mini. I have not been able to get the Pro Mini in my Mini Pearl Logger below 0.7mA apparently because I don't know what I'm doing.

Adafruit says that the "3V" pin is not for powering the Feathers but is 3.3V output from the regulator. Is using that pin to power the Feather a hack?


[cfastie](../profile/cfastie) replying to: [Adafruit Feathers for datalogging](../notes/cfastie/11-14-2017/adafruit-feathers-for-datalogging)

