---
cid: 17721
node: [Can we create a guide or set of guides to interpreting infrared or NDVI images?](../notes/warren/11-16-2017/can-we-create-a-guide-or-set-of-guides-to-interpreting-infrared-or-ndvi-images)
nid: 15196
created_at: 2017-11-19 03:24:56 +0000
timestamp: 1511061896
uid: 554
author: [cfastie](../profile/cfastie)
---

Katie, it sounds like what would be helpful for you is a better NDVI wiki. That would explain what it can mean when NDVI is high, and why it might be low. I think many people must struggle to understand the NDVI images that are posted at publiclab because most of those images are uninterpretable for several reasons (poor photography, poor processing, presented without a color key, limited context). 

Interpreting what is going on in a well made NDVI image is not that hard, although really understanding the biological patterns represented is harder (which is why there are graduate degrees in remote sensing). Because all the DIY NDVI images posted at publiclab have unique stories of place, vegetation, technique, and presentation, each one requires expert scrutiny to extract the meager meaning present. It's a big task to summarize that process. It is a smaller task to summarize the process of interpretation for really good NDVI images. As Jeff suggests, that process is different for agriculture, hydrology, and other investigations (forests, wetlands, turf, soils, etc). So even that is a big job and the result might not be all that applicable to the quality of work being presented at publiclab.

Chris

[cfastie](../profile/cfastie) replying to: [Can we create a guide or set of guides to interpreting infrared or NDVI images?](../notes/warren/11-16-2017/can-we-create-a-guide-or-set-of-guides-to-interpreting-infrared-or-ndvi-images)

