---
cid: 18238
node: [Improved DIY NIR camera calibration](../notes/nedhorning/05-01-2014/improved-diy-nir-camera-calibration)
nid: 10389
created_at: 2018-01-22 14:05:09 +0000
timestamp: 1516629909
uid: 421578
author: [jdburnett](../profile/jdburnett)
---

[@dannysmith](/profile/dannysmith) I will second Ned's thoughts. I assume you are using raw image format out of your camera to increase bit depth and avoid dealing with the sRGB gamma adjustment? You have to do regressions for each band as they will have different slopes. This is due to influences from the bayer filter, wavelength-dependent lens transmittance, and wavelength-dependent variances in photovoltaic response at the sensor. I'd recommend looking at Micasense's documentation on calibration to get a sense of the information you'll need in order to use the ILS to any real effect (https://support.micasense.com/hc/en-us/articles/115000351194-RedEdge-Camera-Radiometric-Calibration-Model). Note that the vignetting and spectral calibration coefficients have already been estimated by the manufacturer. As Ned pointed out, what you're doing has some value from a DIY / low-cost perspective.  If you can assemble the materials and a method for calibrating your camera to the point the ILS is readily integrated into the radiance or reflectance estimation workflow, then you really have something interesting. 
To answer your question about targets more directly, we would need to understand your objective better. The value of the ILS is being able to capture variations in scene illumination over time and/or estimate radiance. If neither of these are your objective, you may be adding a lot of complexity for minimal impact. You might peruse Brown and Miller (1999) "The use of the empirical line method to calibrate remotely sensed data to reflectance" to better understand if Ned's method is best for you. The nice thing about ELM is it constrains everything to the surface (assuming you are flying) and helps calibrate out atmospheric effects. If you only use the ILS and radiance information from your soon-to-be-calibrated camera, then you're estimating at-sensor reflectance which is analogous to top atmosphere reflectance (assuming your sensor is airborne).  This page has some nice information if you are going this direction: https://www.researchgate.net/post/What_is_Difference_between_the_top_of_atmosphere_radiance_and_surface_radiance_and_their_ranges

Also, have you shared your ILS design anywhere?  It looks lightweight.  Does it store the data internally?  How are you synchronizing the data with your imagery?

[jdburnett](../profile/jdburnett) replying to: [Improved DIY NIR camera calibration](../notes/nedhorning/05-01-2014/improved-diy-nir-camera-calibration)

