---
node: Improved DIY NIR camera calibration
author: dannysmith
created_at: 2018-01-23 13:13:59 +0000
timestamp: 1516713239
nid: 10389
cid: 18261
uid: 502439
---



[dannysmith](../profile/dannysmith) replying to: [Improved DIY NIR camera calibration](../notes/nedhorning/05-01-2014/improved-diy-nir-camera-calibration)

----
[@nedhorning](/profile/nedhorning) I think you're right about the expecting the unexpected with this camera, when I get back to the lab later in the week I'll run a trial calibration and post my results. [@jdburnett](/profile/jdburnett), thank you for linking those papers and links, I knew that ned's process must have been based on a known procedure, I just hadn't figured out what it was called. 

The main reason for the ILS is to gather more accurate camera exposure settings, my understanding is that incident readings will produce more stable results since they are not influenced by the reflectivity of a scene. It's a very simple setup, with a cheap AdafruitTSL2561 lux sensor sitting underneath half a ping pong ball housed in a 3d printed case. The ILS is connected to the raspberry pi, telling it what exposure settings to use before each photograph is captured. Photographs are captured in RAW format and stored on a USB on the raspberry pi. Up until now I have been adjusting white balance to produce some semblance of an NDVI, but hopefully this empirical line method will improve things..

I found a paper by [Pagnutti et al. (2017)](https://www.spiedigitallibrary.org/journals/journal-of-electronic-imaging/volume-26/issue-01/013014/Laying-the-foundation-to-use-Raspberry-Pi-3-V2-camera/10.1117/1.JEI.26.1.013014.full?SSO=1) where the authors performed a comprehensive radiometric calibration of the regular raspberry pi camera, unfortunately the version I am using is the NoIR, which has the same sensor, but no Infra red filter. Since the sensor is the same, do you think any of the information they published would be useful, or does taking the IR filter out of a camera completely change its response? From what I've gathered from [Taylor(n.d)](https://www.cis.rit.edu/~cnspci/references/theses/senior/taylor2015.pdf) and [Pagnutti et al. (2017)](https://www.spiedigitallibrary.org/journals/journal-of-electronic-imaging/volume-26/issue-01/013014/Laying-the-foundation-to-use-Raspberry-Pi-3-V2-camera/10.1117/1.JEI.26.1.013014.full?SSO=1), to properly calibrate this camera myself I would need an integrating sphere, a monochromator and a spectrometer... I may have access to these things through my uni, but do you think they're beyond the scope of an undergrad doing a 12 week summer course??

Thank you very much for your responses, the readings you suggested are exactly what I need. 

