---
cid: 18267
node: [Improved DIY NIR camera calibration](../notes/nedhorning/05-01-2014/improved-diy-nir-camera-calibration)
nid: 10389
created_at: 2018-01-23 16:50:08 +0000
timestamp: 1516726208
uid: 421578
author: [jdburnett](../profile/jdburnett)
---

[@dannysmith](/profile/dannysmith) Your use of the ILS seems sound.  Your work will certainly be more defensible if you can use Pagnutti' et. al's method, however, it may also be a lot of work for minimal impact if you can demonstrate that you're capable of retrieving consistent reflectance measurements on your calibration panels under different light intensities.  I am not a applied physics specialist, engineer or specialist in radiative transfer, so I would recommend finding one at your university to at least glance at your ideas and tease out violations of underlying assumptions. 

With regards to the no-IR PI camera I have no experience.  I would imagine that the IR cut filter has a very high transmittance under ~700 nm, so removing it probably won't change sensor response much.  It is something you can evaluate though. Take about 20 images of your calibration panels from a static position under a consistent light source, then remove the IR-cut filter and repeat.  Estimate a mean of average DN by target for all 20 images with the filter, and then do the same for the images without the filter.  If there is an effect worth calibrating for, you should see a distinctly different mean DN after accounting for the +/- of standard error. You may be tempted to take the simple average of the entire scene, but it is unlikely that you'll be able to seat the camera perfectly after each shot, so cropping to a target(s) will alleviate differences induced by slightly altered positions. For the light source, you'll need something pure to ensure your results aren't confounded by IR light.   I've used low-cost narrowband LEDs.  Just get a red, green, and blue one for a few $$. Use a diffuser.  The ping pong ball may be too opaque for the low wattage LEDs.  You also need a very dark room.

Lastly, I think it is pertinent to mention here that the IR pollution across all of the bands is probably going to be your most frustrating problem, with or without calibration.  I ended up using Hunt et al's (2011; "Remote Sensing Leaf Chlorophyll Content Using a Visible Band Index") triangular greenness index (TGI).  This paper is nice because he demonstrates that TGI performs similarly to NDVI, but does not require NIR information.  At the end of the day, you have ask yourself if the extra work and uncertainty associated with dealing with a converted NIR camera gets you a result that is defensible and more useful than TGI.  

In terms of your last question about scope, I think it depends on whether calibrating the camera is an acceptable end point or if the purpose is to use the camera in some fashion and produce an analysis.  If it's the latter, I suspect time may run short. With research projects, things always seem to take twice as long as you think they will. Good luck!

[jdburnett](../profile/jdburnett) replying to: [Improved DIY NIR camera calibration](../notes/nedhorning/05-01-2014/improved-diy-nir-camera-calibration)

