---
cid: 18599
node: [Build a plant-based air purifier ](../notes/nshapiro/09-26-2016/build-a-plant-based-air-purifier)
nid: 13480
created_at: 2018-02-25 23:17:49 +0000
timestamp: 1519600669
uid: 526089
author: [localman](../profile/localman)
---

Excellent project! I've been diving into Wolverton's studies (alongside all other phyto-remediation studies) to get an idea of what options I have for a newly renovated, unventilated apartment building. Opening windows hasn't been helping since I live next to a gas station - the fumes just waft in so I try to be judicious about how often the windows are open.

A few questions:
1) At step 4, you mention:

<div>(4.) Pot the plant as you normally would just within the growth medium you have prepared. Be sure to snake the aquarium tubing over the lip of the container, with the end terminating high in the root ball. You will want to never have the water level in your planter high enough to be sucked into the tubing and destroy or contaminate the pump.</div>

Do you have measurements or a picture of what this looks like? What is "high enough" normally? Where upon/around the root ball does tubing normally lie?

2) Are there more finished images of the complete system? I see the [Early Model (2014)](https://publiclab.org/notes/liz/05-16-2017/early-2014-plant-filter-prototype) and a few pictures of [other builds](https://publiclab.org/notes/jfrankamp/10-07-2016/snake-plant-air-remediation-build-partial-teardown), but more is merrier - especially around the vaccuum setup.

3) How does ventilation occur - from vaccuuming air into the plant's root area to ejection of the air? This setup sucks in air, but I don't see how it dumps it out like in Wolverton's [Plant Air Purifier](https://www.plantairpurifier.com/). I might be miscontruing. :(

[localman](../profile/localman) replying to: [Build a plant-based air purifier ](../notes/nshapiro/09-26-2016/build-a-plant-based-air-purifier)

