---
node: Call for Summer of Code 2018 proposals!
author: warren
created_at: 2018-02-26 17:56:01 +0000
timestamp: 1519667761
nid: 15743
cid: 18620
uid: 1
---



[warren](../profile/warren) replying to: [Call for Summer of Code 2018 proposals!](../notes/warren/02-15-2018/call-for-summer-of-code-2018-proposals)

----
Hi, [@stefannibrasil](/profile/stefannibrasil) -- thanks, great question! 

As a baseline, i love to see people who've made an initial contribution and shown that they are good team players in communicating over GitHub (we're of course eager to be sure everyone is made to feel welcome!). I also love it when first-time contributors use their newly learned skills to help others get started -- offering setup tips and other assistance! It can be intimidating to get started on this codebase, and we want all summer fellows to be good welcomers and very collaboration-oriented.

Second, we love to see specific examples of complex projects broken up (as i mentioned above) into smaller pieces, where each piece can be tested, reviewed, documented, and merged in -- and isn't too gigantic for others to understand!

Third, we love when students embrace the cooperative work style we outline at https://publiclab.org/software-outreach -- inviting others into their work, communicating regularly about it, and staying in touch as they go! It's always great to see 2-3 people all chiming in on a PR to help get it solved. 

[@souravirus](/profile/souravirus) [@sagarpreet](/profile/sagarpreet) [@sid2111995](/profile/sid2111995) [@milaaraujo](/profile/milaaraujo) [@Raounak](/profile/Raounak) [@gauravano](/profile/gauravano) [@mridulnagpal](/profile/mridulnagpal) [@tech4gt](/profile/tech4gt)	[@bansal_sidharth2996](/profile/bansal_sidharth2996) [@vidit](/profile/vidit) [@vishesh](/profile/vishesh)	[@namangupta](/profile/namangupta)	[@500swapnil](/profile/500swapnil) thanks for your proposals -- please help one another with these sorts of tips and input, and be welcoming to newcomers as always!

And to anyone who hasn't posted yet, we welcome drafts for comment, even before you're totally ready!