---
cid: 18630
node: [What do you think about this new design sketch for a Welcome page?](../notes/warren/02-21-2018/what-do-you-think-about-this-new-design-sketch-for-a-welcome-page)
nid: 15796
created_at: 2018-02-26 20:10:59 +0000
timestamp: 1519675859
uid: 1
author: [warren](../profile/warren)
---

Thanks [@zengirl2](/profile/zengirl2) - yeah, i agree there are these two "attitudes" people might bring, and this particularly resonated with me on the "Ask a Question" prompt. On the one hand, groups facing pollution don't need to "ask a lot of abstract questions" to articulate something they already know is a problem. We definitely don't want to cast doubt on their experiences, so that idea of "Ask a question as the first step" in that sense may be more for those seeking to get involved in community science. 

But then we definitely want people who just need support with a problem to be able to simply ask for it, and that also makes sense as a question. So I was trying to capture some of that duality in the "Get help. Ask _anything_" area.

The two leading calls to action of **Give help** and **Get help** are also an attempt to get at this idea of an exchange -- sometimes you're offering, sometimes you're requesting; both are important, and people may do some of each. 

Also +1 on its a long page. I wanted to kind of "skip" the "what is Public Lab" as much as possible (hopefully this is clear on PublicLab.org, and if not we can continue refining that page), and focus on making sure people know they're welcome (part of WHO is PL), and what they can DO. 



[warren](../profile/warren) replying to: [What do you think about this new design sketch for a Welcome page?](../notes/warren/02-21-2018/what-do-you-think-about-this-new-design-sketch-for-a-welcome-page)

