---
cid: 18676
node: [GSoC proposal: Image-Sequencer v2 : Processing on steroids](../notes/tech4gt/02-19-2018/gsoc-proposal-image-sequencer-v2-processing-on-steroids)
nid: 15767
created_at: 2018-03-01 14:57:35 +0000
timestamp: 1519916255
uid: 1
author: [warren](../profile/warren)
---

Hi! Lot of great ideas in here. I like the GPU one -- for this and other ideas, can you link to the corresponding GitHub issue next to the item in your proposal? Also just to watch out, if you use `#___` syntax on PublicLab.org, it'l link to the PublicLab post of that id, not the GItHub one, and will add some tags... so maybe you should just use the number and not `#`? 

I really like your ideas about a remove server-supported system for some phones, but I worry that it's a huge project. I'd like to emphasize solving some real-world problems with IS before tackling that, so for example trying to port over work by [@amirberAgain](/profile/amirberAgain) and [@simonPyle](/profile/simonPyle) on particle detection. Something like that will really do a lot to encourage people that this architecture is promising and useful.

However, i do like the idea of coming up with a syntax for JSON requests to be sent to a remote server for processing. We should document that in an issue. 

I really like the GPU idea, as I think most phone GPUs can do a lot to accelerate this process.One idea we'd had early on with [@ccpandhare](/profile/ccpandhare)'s input (and please [@ccpandhare](/profile/ccpandhare) i'd love to hear your thoughts on this proposal) was to see if neighboring modules /both/ use GPU canvas and to pass the canvas instance directly rather than URL encoding and decoding, to save time. We could call it "context passing" or something.

One more thought -- there's a lot of UI work that could be done on the web version to help smooth things out. I think people would love to use this for lots of things Photoshop is used for today, if it were easy to use (since it's freely available too) and you could just open it in a browser tab. So, thinking of things like:

* background threads so the UI doesn't hang
* better progress indicators
* better presented documentation and examples
* better ability to "save and share" a particular sequence and its settings (we have some really basic URL-based sharing right now) so people can re-use sequences more

More soon!

[warren](../profile/warren) replying to: [GSoC proposal: Image-Sequencer v2 : Processing on steroids](../notes/tech4gt/02-19-2018/gsoc-proposal-image-sequencer-v2-processing-on-steroids)

