---
cid: 18678
node: [GSoC proposal: Image-Sequencer v2 : Processing on steroids](../notes/tech4gt/02-19-2018/gsoc-proposal-image-sequencer-v2-processing-on-steroids)
nid: 15767
created_at: 2018-03-01 15:36:12 +0000
timestamp: 1519918572
uid: 523178
author: [tech4gt](../profile/tech4gt)
---

[@warren](/profile/warren) First of all thanks a ton for this, I know how busy you are right now.
Secondly i kind of noticed the # thing after I posted this so i manually deleted all the tags that were applied to this note hence no worries there.
Thirdly I was thinking then maybe we can keep the remote server idea at the bottom of the priority list, maybe we can start working on that in the last week or so and i can continue working on that after gsoc?

And I will totally open issues for all the ideas i have had and link them here. One other thing that i wanted to ask was that maybe we can add this issue about addon modules to the proposal https://github.com/publiclab/image-sequencer/issues/190 we can replace the remote server idea with this on the priority list?
As far as particle detection is considered no worries there it will be first thing I start working on after my mid-semester college evaluations and hopefully that will be done before summer.

I will most certainly research the context passing idea and open a well documented issue for that. Lastly thanks for the awesome ui ideas, even i have some ideas for the ui so i will consolidate all of them and make a ui improvements checklist.

Also I had 2 questions
Firstly should we open issues for all the ideas that we have right now?
Secondly do we include the progressive web app for the demo in the ui improvements checklist?

Once again thanks a ton for this, I really appreciate it.

[tech4gt](../profile/tech4gt) replying to: [GSoC proposal: Image-Sequencer v2 : Processing on steroids](../notes/tech4gt/02-19-2018/gsoc-proposal-image-sequencer-v2-processing-on-steroids)

