---
cid: 18691
node: [GSoC proposal: Leaflet Blurred Location Part 2](../notes/mridulnagpal/01-22-2018/leaflet-blurred-location)
nid: 15584
created_at: 2018-03-01 19:12:00 +0000
timestamp: 1519931520
uid: 1
author: [warren](../profile/warren)
---

The geocoding is now fixed -- thanks! 

I think a lot of this project has to do with integrating Leaflet Blurred Location with plots2 -- so, for example:

* using and expanding the new geographic APIs, as in https://github.com/publiclab/plots2/issues/2254
* adding the ability to pan the map to refresh the data with a new API call each time the map is panned: https://github.com/publiclab/plots2/issues/1934
* adding the ability to text-search a displayed map (like, instead of panning it, to center a new location and trigger an API call for new markers) -- maybe as part of Leaflet.BlurredLocationDisplay?
* a means to display "blurred" locations instead of using markers, so perhaps polygons, shaded regions, or simply showing markers but only at lower map resolutions (also Display related, see https://github.com/publiclab/leaflet-blurred-location/issues/84)
* generally working through some UI related improvements I started to unpack here: https://github.com/publiclab/leaflet-blurred-location/issues/116
* testing for interface features -- https://github.com/publiclab/leaflet-blurred-location/issues/119

Plenty left also in the main planning issue here: https://github.com/publiclab/plots2/issues/1416

I also love:

> Connect people on the basis of their location they enter

And think we could break this up more finely -- say:

1. display nearby people or projects on a map on your profile (although maybe only when you "expand" the existing map?)
2. be able to display `12 projects near you` or `45 people within ~100 miles` type information on plots2

And I also love the location-based subscriptions which are kind of related to the above number 2. -- maybe we need `Node.near(lat, lon, dist)` and `User.near(lat, lon, dist)` to achieve this? Cool!

Hey, great work here! Lots more to do and if others want to work on this project too, there seems to be plenty of work to go around! Say, if [@sagarpreet](/profile/sagarpreet) wanted to take a few of these, for example, or start at the "other end" and meet in the middle. Collaboration is great! :-)

[warren](../profile/warren) replying to: [GSoC proposal: Leaflet Blurred Location Part 2](../notes/mridulnagpal/01-22-2018/leaflet-blurred-location)

