---
node: GSoC proposal: Email integration Project
author: warren
created_at: 2018-03-01 22:10:19 +0000
timestamp: 1519942219
nid: 15755
cid: 18712
uid: 1
---



[warren](../profile/warren) replying to: [GSoC proposal: Email integration Project](../notes/namangupta/02-17-2018/gsoc-proposal)

----
Wheeee! A third proposal for email integration! I'm going to re-iterate what I wrote to [@gauravano](/profile/gauravano) and [@vidit](/profile/vidit) -- this is a highest-priority project for us, so we'd love to see multiple people tackling this from different sides. It's not a problem if multiple people are accepted; we will have to break the broader project down into parts so that it's possible for multiple people to work on at the same time.

For all three of you, do look at proposals by others doing Rails 5 upgrade work: [@souravirus](/profile/souravirus), and [@meghana-07](/profile/meghana-07) have both proposed this. [#15826](/n/15826) [#15814](/n/15814) There may be some cooperation and work sharing on the Rails 4.2 upgrade which ActiveJob requires -- even before the summer begins!

Perhaps with three people interested, my comments about how to break it up could be taken even further -- discuss! I also proposed a possible "reply by tweet" concept on [@gauravano](/profile/gauravano)'s post, so maybe that's another area where a third person could get into things. 

Awesome, please read one anothers' posts and provide each other with some feedback! And don't worry about overlapping -- as i said before, it's a powerful motivator to break things up into smaller parts so that multiple people can work in parallel on different parts of the problem. Thanks!!!