---
cid: 18837
node: [Attaching a Raspberry Pi Camera to a Microscope Objective Lens](../notes/partsandcrafts/02-15-2018/2-attaching-your-raspberry-pi-camera-to-a-microscope-objective-lens)
nid: 15739
created_at: 2018-03-10 11:58:15 +0000
timestamp: 1520683095
uid: 470739
author: [richardbowman](../profile/richardbowman)
---

Hey, nice work!  I thought I'd chime in with some information about tube length in case it's helpful.  You're right that most RMS microscope objectives are designed to produce an image 150mm from the "shoulder" where the thread joins the body (the 160mm "tube length" refers to a tube that accepts eyepieces, the image is nominally about 10mm from the end of that tube, hence 150mm).

A perfect thin lens will image an object on one side of the lens to a plane on the other side of the lens.  If the distance from object to lens is a, and the distance from lens to image is b, then the magnification is b/a, and 1/a + 1/b = 1/f where f is the focal length of the lens.  Normally a is quite a lot smaller than b, so if you change b a bit, you don't notice much of a change in a.  That is the reason you can get away with a short tube length and still get a reasonable image.

However, microscope objectives are neither perfect, nor thin, nor lenses - they are usually made up of several lenses, and carefully optimised for one particular set of distances (the "design conjugates").  So, while you can vary a and b to change magnification, you need to remember that by doing this, you're using the lens in a non-optimal way.  You will have the magnification you want, but the resolution (i.e. image quality) will be lower.

Adding the second lens means that the objective is being used more or less the way it was intended to be used, which does improve the image quality - though it's more noticeable for high-power (40x or 100x) objectives.  Using an achromatic lens is best, but it's hard to buy those cheaply in any quantity - you can try to get hold of cheaper "singlet" lenses which are a compromise between price and quality.  I think it might be possible to use lenses designed for Google Cardboard VR, which can be very cheap, but I've not yet put together an optics module that will work with these.

Oh, and the other nice feature of using a secondary lens is that it protects the sensor from dust, though I'd caution you that the plastic won't cope with repeated changes of the objective lens, eventually it will wear out.

[richardbowman](../profile/richardbowman) replying to: [Attaching a Raspberry Pi Camera to a Microscope Objective Lens](../notes/partsandcrafts/02-15-2018/2-attaching-your-raspberry-pi-camera-to-a-microscope-objective-lens)

