---
node: GSoC proposal: v2 API development | Grape | Swagger Specification
author: warren
created_at: 2018-03-12 14:16:02 +0000
timestamp: 1520864162
nid: 15790
cid: 18864
uid: 1
---



[warren](../profile/warren) replying to: [GSoC proposal: v2 API development | Grape | Swagger Specification](../notes/Raounak/02-21-2018/gsoc-proposal-v2-api-development)

----
Hi! Thanks, this is looking good, and i'll just reply to things in a list here -- 

1. I like the background info on Swagger and OpenAPI -- can you describe how this relates to the current state of the API? And perhaps make reference to the API docs at https://github.com/publiclab/plots2/blob/master/doc/API.md ? 
2. I love your mention of the https://publiclab.org/stats pages as a target for API development. This is a long-standing goal, and I want to specifically highlight CSV download so that people working on analyzing community work on Public Lab (like [@liz](/profile/liz)) can download and graph the data efficiently. The API doesn't currently offer CSV and only some RSS format endpoints, and I'm not sure how this relates to Swagger conventions. Can you elaborate? Thanks!
3. Your diagrams are really nice! I wonder if we could elaborate a bit on the relationship between the API endpoints in files like this: https://github.com/publiclab/plots2/blob/master/app/api/srch/search.rb and the Services in in files like this: https://github.com/publiclab/plots2/blob/master/app/services/typeahead_service.rb -- the former are functional-tested, while the latter are unit-tested (or should be!) and can be used elsewhere in the application. How might this structure be used to implement a more consistent Stats system -- perhaps a `statistics_service.rb` file? 
* finally i love the detail in your proposal on things like tokens, versioning, caching. We see pretty high load on the `/stats` page queries, so that may be something we need to control for. We also already have a preliminary token system created by [@ryzokuken](/profile/ryzokuken) -- perhaps that section of your proposal could talk more about how that can be integrated into the API, or how more token-based functions could be built out from that start?

Thanks a lot! Don't forget to take a look at related proposals by [@milaaraujo](/profile/milaaraujo), [@stefannibrasil](/profile/stefannibrasil), [@rishabh07](/profile/rishabh07), and [@sukhbir](/profile/sukhbir) -- and reach out to talk with them about their proposals too! [#soc-2018-api](/tag/soc-2018-api) 