---
cid: 18981
node: [GSoC proposal: Social Media Integration and Leaflet-Layers Library .](../notes/sagarpreet/02-16-2018/social-media-integration-and-part-of-interactive-project-maps)
nid: 15744
created_at: 2018-03-16 08:47:49 +0000
timestamp: 1521190069
uid: 1
author: [warren](../profile/warren)
---

Hi, all -- still trying to keep up with the proposals... so many good ones!

As to Twitter vs. FB or others (just to explain for [@mkashyap354](/profile/mkashyap354)), we hope to do integration with several, and I think it's fine to focus on one at a time. We've seen lots of people respond helpfully to questions from the site which we post (now automatically) to Twitter, and getting some of those replies to show up back on the site would be great. 

I LOVE the flowchart and background work you've done on Twitter. I think this is pretty great. One idea i had though -- tell me what you think -- is to use the `nid` in the tweets we generate as part of the URL maybe? Or, as a hashtag -- then search for that hashtag -- in [@publiclab](/profile/publiclab) tweets, like `#15744` for this node. Could that make things slightly easier? Just trying to brainstorm a bit. 

Regarding map related features, let's see... I think there are a lot of different projects going on in maps, including new layers, ways to show different types of content (users, nodes) -- I wonder if we ought to create a JS library for maps on Public Lab -- a way to generate a Leaflet map and pass it node or user ids, and have it produce the Leaflet map instance? That would help standardize mapping implementation across the site, too. We could spin this out as a sub-library in JavaScript, kind of like how we've done for:

* https://github.com/publiclab/PublicLab.Editor/
* https://github.com/publiclab/inline-markdown-editor/

I hope that's helpful feedback!

[warren](../profile/warren) replying to: [GSoC proposal: Social Media Integration and Leaflet-Layers Library .](../notes/sagarpreet/02-16-2018/social-media-integration-and-part-of-interactive-project-maps)

