---
cid: 18992
node: [GSoc Proposal: OAuth & Upgrade to Bootstrap 4](../notes/bansal_sidharth2996/02-20-2018/gsoc-proposal-oauth-authentication)
nid: 15771
created_at: 2018-03-16 18:59:06 +0000
timestamp: 1521226746
uid: 503599
author: [bansal_sidharth2996](../profile/bansal_sidharth2996)
---

The seminar would be conducted in the month of August. Our University has a footfall 7000+ students. Out of them, many are curious to get involved in the Open Source Development but they don't know how to get started and from where we can get started. So, I can arrange a seminar at my university where I will explain about the Open Source Community, Basic Git Practices, Public labs different projects -plots2, Editor, leaflet etc, GSoC etc. Those who will get in touch me after the seminar would start contributing to the public labs. 
Regarding the Oauth, it will provide a multi-third party authentication service.
I am thinking of introducing identities. A user has many identities. These identities have provider and uid fields. There would be a 'user has many identities' and an 'identity belongs to a user' kind of association. The providers will be present inside the identities.
The basic work flow for a new user is as follow:
He/she opens the public labs for the first time. He/she wants to make a new account. He has two options either he will click on the sign up through the provider(fb, twitter, github or google) or will sign up through the system which we have currently. If he/she tries to sign up via provider then he will be redirected to user registration form containing password, email address etc(available at /signup). If he signs up through then it will show up the user 4 icons for the four providers at the edit profile page.
On clicking on the icon, say facebook the facebook account will be linked in with the main user account. An identity will store the information of the user provided by the provider. If the user then clicks on that same icon again then the user will get notified that you have already enabled a fb account. Now the user can link to any of the accounts. 
Now the user signs out. Then the user will be able to login through any of the provider which he has linked to his account. 


[bansal_sidharth2996](../profile/bansal_sidharth2996) replying to: [GSoc Proposal: OAuth & Upgrade to Bootstrap 4](../notes/bansal_sidharth2996/02-20-2018/gsoc-proposal-oauth-authentication)

