---
cid: 19006
node: [Camera module for Computer Vision/LED Plant Measurement System](../notes/SangHo/03-17-2018/camera-module-for-computer-vision-led-plant-measurement-system)
nid: 15965
created_at: 2018-03-17 23:20:48 +0000
timestamp: 1521328848
uid: 501996
author: [MaggPi](../profile/MaggPi)
---

-I have no direct experience with the PI zero.   I always felt that it was so stripped down that by the time I bought all the input/output connection accessories, the Raspberry Pi 3 was of better value.   
-I can still try to answer your questions- one about  PI 1.3 and the other about Simple CV.

Lets work on Simple CV first.
---Simple CV is a python wrapper around OpenCV computer vision software:
--------http://simplecv.org/    
(Check out the Raspberry PI Cookbook  for a tutorial on loading SimpleCV on a Raspberry Pi.)
---------https://opencv.org/
--Simple CV worked great for me and is a lot ‘simpler’ to use then OpenCV.  Unfortunately, it seems to have lost active support (https://github.com/sightmachine/SimpleCV, since 2015) so I have been shifting to OpenCV.   I still believe SimpleCV is the best way to learn computer vision, but since  they no longer have help desk support, it may be best to start with OpenCV.     
--In order to run Open CV,  you probably need at least 100MB RAM.   Complicated processing algorithms could use additional  hundreds of MBs. 

 
-Concerning  PI Zero.  Wikipedia provides a great survey of Raspberry PI performance, 
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Raspberry_Pi.   A quick scan of Zero/1.3 is that 500MB RAM  is available and should be good enough to get you started.   
--The only tutorial I could find on loading OPenCV on a PI Zero is from Adrian Rosenbach.   Believe he adds great value but be warned of the sales pitch at the end.    
https://www.pyimagesearch.com/2015/12/14/installing-opencv-on-your-raspberry-pi-zero/

-In summary:
-It seems possible to load either SimpleCV or OpenCV on a Raspberry Pi  Zero.    
-It all depends on what you are trying to do, 
it might run too slow, or run out of RAM (memory errors) if you have a complex problem.
-My advice is to use a Raspberry PI zero for only simple tasks such as white balance adjustments / exposure settings or time lapse measurements where there is a lot of memory managed in-between processing time available.  
-Also note that the latest Raspberry PI 3 Model B+  was released Mar 14!  
-Recommend posting your Raspberry PI zero application as a forum question so others with direct/more experience may be able to help.    

[MaggPi](../profile/MaggPi) replying to: [Camera module for Computer Vision/LED Plant Measurement System](../notes/SangHo/03-17-2018/camera-module-for-computer-vision-led-plant-measurement-system)

