---
cid: 19126
node: [GSoc Proposal: OAuth & Upgrade to Bootstrap 4](../notes/bansal_sidharth2996/02-20-2018/gsoc-proposal-oauth-authentication)
nid: 15771
created_at: 2018-03-23 05:10:22 +0000
timestamp: 1521781822
uid: 503599
author: [bansal_sidharth2996](../profile/bansal_sidharth2996)
---

Hi [@warren](/profile/warren), I would like to mention that we cannot have a direct sign up from the provider(without signing through registration form) because of many reasons:

User model must have an email. If we are directly writing into the user model then twitter login cannot be made because twitter does not provide email addresses.

A user can have multiple providers. This capability can only be achieved by has many relationships. Hence, we need to have an identity associated with the user.

If a user directly signs up through a provider and then unlinks his same provider account then that will result in the deletion of the user account

There are potential chances of having username same for the user model currently present in the public lab's production database and the username given by the provider so that will result in a conflict

There would be no way of merging accounts of the different provider but of the same person.

A user will have only one provider, so he cannot access the account via another provider.

The case when the person deletes his provider X account A but does not delete his account B on the public lab(say person deletes his facebook account permanently) then he will be no longer able to access his account at public labs

When a person deletes his old account and makes a new account at twitter, facebook, google etc.(Even though there are negligible chances but we need to consider at the time of defining relationships) then the user will not be able to access his previous account at public labs.

Consider the case, when one provider is gone from the market(I am considering the worst case scenario, eg Orkut was a social networking site which is no longer used) then there would be a need to delete the provider's account. That will result in the users account deletion

Hence, we cannot have a direct sign up from a provider. Instead, the user will need to first sign up through the registraion form then he can add providers to his user model. After the linking is successful the user will be able to directly login though the provider. We will be using identities which will be associated with the user model. They can be created or deleted as per the user's need. This will not result in any deletion of account from public labs(until the user wants to delete his account in the public lab) when any discrepancy would happen in future. We could at the later stages (whenever needed ) add other providers like LinkedIn, Instagram etc.

I hope I am clear. If not please ping me, I am ready to explain.
Thanks

[bansal_sidharth2996](../profile/bansal_sidharth2996) replying to: [GSoc Proposal: OAuth & Upgrade to Bootstrap 4](../notes/bansal_sidharth2996/02-20-2018/gsoc-proposal-oauth-authentication)

