---
node: Build a plant-based air purifier 
author: nshapiro
created_at: 2018-03-26 20:40:44 +0000
timestamp: 1522096844
nid: 13480
cid: 19192
uid: 380298
---



[nshapiro](../profile/nshapiro) replying to: [Build a plant-based air purifier ](../notes/nshapiro/09-26-2016/build-a-plant-based-air-purifier)

----
Hi [@localman](/profile/localman), apologies for any confusion. Vertical (facing upwards close to the rootball) is ideal. It depends on how big your planter is whether or not you have the space to give the roots a bit more room from the outlet/inlet of the air hose. The moving air can be jarring to the plant so you want to have a bit of a Goldilocks setup, close but not too close. In the kit version we are working on we will have a part sewn into the system that will guide air tube placement. Further images can be seen in this note: https://publiclab.org/notes/nshapiro/02-07-2018/indoor-air-remediation-kit-paris-prototype-and-workshop-2-2-18

We haven't compared to the squirrel cage fan because they are expensive (iif you've found some inexpensive versions please let me know) and add engineering complexity, reducing the accessibility and increasing the price in two ways.  If you wanted to do a comparison, I might be able to supply an HCHO meter to test their efficacy. In our early prototypes the airflow was 0.3 litters per minute. Its not clear to me if speeding up that flow rate would correspond to an increase of air purifying capacity. The fans move more volume but with lower force, which may or may not lead to an increased actual flowrate through the growth medium.  Looking forward to hearing more about your build as it unfolds!