---
cid: 19401
node: [what data-logger will work with my portable HCHO meter?](../notes/nshapiro/03-27-2018/what-data-logger-will-work-with-my-portable-hcho-meter)
nid: 16028
created_at: 2018-04-13 03:44:46 +0000
timestamp: 1523591086
uid: 445906
author: [kinasmith](../profile/kinasmith)
---

sorry, I wasn't very clear in that previous message. I'll try to clarify. 
You'll need an Arduino in the middle between the sensor and the computer. That's where the serial port comes from. A little bit of code on the arduino (modified from what cfastie posted) will basically convert from an analog input into a digital value, then print that out to the serial port.  (https://gist.github.com/kinasmith/fd46b7c17b332520d0fb56f863e3ed15)

Quick note about the code. It will read in the voltage from the sensor on Analog Pin 3. Convert from the digital code (number between 0 and 1023) back into a voltage (between 0 and 1.01 volts), then send those out the serial port along with the milliseconds since the sketch started, and the adcRaw value. Each value is separated by a comma, so that it will be a CSV file when it's done being captured and can be imported directly into excel. You should be able to get accurate time stamps if you take good notes about when you start sketches, and what files are named, etc. 


Regarding Coolterm: Once you have an Arduino plugged in (as long as you have the IDE installed and working etc, it should show up on that list of serial ports). I can't seem to get CoolTerm working right now on my computer, but here is an excellent looking tutorial for exactly what you're trying to do:
http://www.reuk.co.uk/wordpress/saving-arduino-collected-data-to-text-file-on-windows/

Let me know how that goes. I'll have time tomorrow after 5pm (mountain time) to chat if you're available. 

[kinasmith](../profile/kinasmith) replying to: [what data-logger will work with my portable HCHO meter?](../notes/nshapiro/03-27-2018/what-data-logger-will-work-with-my-portable-hcho-meter)

