---
cid: 19445
node: [Which organizer can I contact if I want to start the first chapter in Germany?](../notes/niklasjordan/04-17-2018/which-organizer-can-i-contact-if-i-want-to-start-the-first-chapter-in-germany)
nid: 16163
created_at: 2018-04-18 14:43:12 +0000
timestamp: 1524062592
uid: 531062
author: [niklasjordan](../profile/niklasjordan)
---

Hi [@liz](/profile/liz), Hi [@stevie](/profile/stevie),
thank you very much for your detailed answer. I understand that you don't need to rely on individuals who have to hold local chapters together. However, we are now 5-10 people who want to actively participate in the group. From environmental activists and environmental organizations to developer/technologists and data nerds to science enthusiasts, we have everything with us. In addition there was already a conversation with our local FabLab with whom we can work together and use their rooms. 

First lectures in the FabLab and workshops for interested CitizenScientists are already in consultation. In addition, there is a "Night of Science" in our city where we are planning an event. Contacts to the local press have also been established. We have already developed several project ideas and evaluated them with environmental protection organisations.

As you can see, we are fully involved and would like to make PublicLab better known to the people in Northern Germany. However, with the number of people and organisations involved, it would make sense to structure this somewhat. Therefore the question whether it would still be possible to provide us with the communication possibilities conceived for the chapters, such as an own mailing list and Wiki page?

For events and workshops it would be cool if we could hand out flyers, handouts or postcards. Can you provide us with something or help us with it?

In short: My friend and I started with it and told people about it and in a few weeks the project PublicLab Germany has grown extremely. Many people want to be there, there are many ideas and infrastructure that we can already use. That's why I want to involve everyone who wants to participate as well as I can and take it with me so that it becomes something. Therefore, some structure and organization would not be wrong I think.

What do you think?  

Take care!
-Niklas

[niklasjordan](../profile/niklasjordan) replying to: [Which organizer can I contact if I want to start the first chapter in Germany?](../notes/niklasjordan/04-17-2018/which-organizer-can-i-contact-if-i-want-to-start-the-first-chapter-in-germany)

