---
cid: 19809
node: [GSoC proposal: Computer Vision enhancements for Raspberry Pi based Public Lab Science Projects](../notes/MaggPi/03-20-2018/gsoc-proposal-computer-vision-enhancements-for-raspberry-pi-based-public-lab-science-projects)
nid: 15978
created_at: 2018-06-13 03:19:28 +0000
timestamp: 1528859968
uid: 501996
author: [MaggPi](../profile/MaggPi)
---

[@amirberAgain](/profile/amirberAgain), [@warren](/profile/warren), [@icarito](/profile/icarito)

This note is a follow up to the June 6 meeting, a past work summary and outline of future goals.  
a.	Code organization
b.	Milestones and future goals 
c.	Raspberry Pi 
	
Code organization:  There was a good discussion of different ways to organize Raspberry Pi software for different Public Lab users and applications at the June 6 meeting.   The approach selected considers three categories (Picamera, USB and Image Processing) that are based on different ways the image is acquired.    In addition, multiple  software routines  have been posted to accommodate different levels of experience.   For example, a beginner will probably just want to capture an image, a slightly more experienced user  will want to capture and annotate the image, and an experienced programmer will want  to capture, annotate and  process the image.   (with opencv).   All  code is available at:  https://github.com/MargaretAN9/Peggy.  Demonstration of code output can be seen at https://publiclab.org/profile/MaggPi

Postings on github as of June 11, 2018
Picamera: 
Designed for the Raspberry PI with PI v2 camera/picamera software.  

--PiCameraEffectsShow.py 
	Display several processing modes available with picamera
--PiCameraEffectsVid.py
	Same as PiCameraEffectsShow.py but also records video in h264 format
--picameravidwithimagecapture.py	
	Displays video and captures image	
--picamerawithimagecaptureopencv.py
	Displays video captures image (with open cv)


USB:
Designed for Raspberry PI with a USB webcamera.  

--USBTakesPic+Annotates.py 
-uses fswebcam for picture 
--USBVidWithImageCapture.py
-uses pigame for video and image capture 

Image Processing: 
This category is for users who want to process a stored image.  

--AddsAxisToImage.py   
	-Adds resolution scale to image
--RGBquad.py	
	-Displays RGB pictures in quad format
--YUVQuad.py
	-Displays YUV pictures in quad format

Milestones and future goals: 
The third month will continue past work and concentrate on interacting with the camera/object versus just using the auto settings. The programs will be tested  with  imaging (microscope), multispectral and spectroscopic applications. 

Phase 2 Code deliverables: Exposure control programs:  (June 16  to July13 Evaluation)
Week 5	- Optimization for longer exposure times, requires multiple settings to be 			 	adjusted and looping thru different settings. 
Week 6	-Manipulating RGB/HSV image, masked measurements and selection				program. Region of Interest selection is useful for spectral data 					since you can record a slice of the  3240 x 2464 image.
Week 7	-Intensity  and histogram maps   
Week 8	 -Prepare documentation/final evaluation

Phase 3 Code deliverables: Spectroscopic Applications (July 14 to Aug 14 Evaluation)
The last phase will concentrate on applying some of the general processing options developed earlier to specific applications.   Applications to be considered are NIR/G/B microscopy and  spectral calibration. 
  The general approach for spectral calibration is to see if multiple views at different exposure settings and analyzing data from the higher spectral orders could be used for spectral analysis.  I thought I would work on this since most everyone in computer vision works stuff  like face recognition but few are working spectral recognition.  A major challenge is overcoming spectral overlap issues in higher orders.  
Week 9	-Controlling dynamic range with feedback from CV processed 					spectrographs
Week 10	-Spectroscopic calibration for (near) real time spectroscopy
Week 11	-Transmission spectroscopy experiment – objective is to extend the free spectral 			range
Week 12 	-Prepare documentation/final evaluation


Raspberry PI: 

I know Public Lab already provides a pre-load image for streaming applications (
https://publiclab.org/notes/partsandcrafts/12-03-2017/setting-up-the-raspberry-pi-camera-for-wireless-streaming ) but it may be worthwhile to consider an image for non-streaming applications as well.   This would permit work without WiFi and allow camera preprocessing capability.  The image does not necessarily need to include opencv since python/picamera/ matplotlib also provide many image processing/display features. 


[MaggPi](../profile/MaggPi) replying to: [GSoC proposal: Computer Vision enhancements for Raspberry Pi based Public Lab Science Projects](../notes/MaggPi/03-20-2018/gsoc-proposal-computer-vision-enhancements-for-raspberry-pi-based-public-lab-science-projects)

