---
node: Dark images, can't get spectrometer to work
author: Pushpaw
created_at: 2018-06-22 12:54:45 +0000
timestamp: 1529672085
nid: 16512
cid: 19865
uid: 432693
---



[Pushpaw](../profile/Pushpaw) replying to: [Dark images, can't get spectrometer to work](../notes/Tomas0413/06-16-2018/dark-images-can-t-get-spectrometer-to-work)

----
Unbelievable!, Linux has several free webcam utils and most web cams come with utils for Windows. I was struggling to come to terms with the idea that Mac OS has nothing bundled and that web cam manufacturers don't ship anything for Mac OS with their cameras, but it appears it's true. I guess this is part of the Apple 'It just works (except when it doesn't)' philosophy. A lot of the web cam utils that are available for Mac OS seem to be geared towards video conferencing and drawing silly facial features on selfies, which you don't really want. CamHolderApp seems of that ilk, it's designed for displaying what's happening on a smartphone screen and has things like Auto Focus that you probably don't want. What's needed for the spectrometer is a more nuts and bolts util that lets you set gain, exposure, white balance, colour temperature and so on. Then you need to work out which settings are best to set up the camera for best results in Spectral Workbench. Fortunately the Linux utility I use works with both my home brewed Logitech based spectrometer and with the camera in the PL Spec. 3. The tricky thing is that different cameras support a different range of controls and you need software that supports the camera you are using. GUCView supports both Logitech camera, which has more tweakable controls than the camera in the Spectrometer 3, and the Spec 3 camera. I did know what that camera was but I have forgotten.