---
node: comparison betweeen spectra made by manufacturer and spectralbench?
author: Pushpaw
created_at: 2018-06-27 11:47:30 +0000
timestamp: 1530100050
nid: 15720
cid: 19923
uid: 432693
---



[Pushpaw](../profile/Pushpaw) replying to: [comparison betweeen spectra made by manufacturer and spectralbench?](../notes/miramon/02-12-2018/comparison-betweeen-spectra-made-by-manufacturer-and-spectralbench)

----
Bit late to comment I know, but what are you saying won't match? You seem to be saying the OP is comparing a white LED spectrum captured with the PL Spectrometer to a capture with a commercial spectrometer of its tungsten calibration lamp.
I think the OP has a good point, as far as I know no-one has compared the spectrum from a well constructed PL Spectrometer and a commercial spectrometer both capturing the same source. Which might show that the PL Spec gives at least roughly right results or if they are in some way wildly different from a commercial spectrometer. I have noticed that the published spectra for 'white' LEDs show a narrow blue peak followed by a gentle yellow hump. Which is what you might expect for a white LED that has a blue LED plus a yellow phosphor. However if I capture the spectrum of a 'white' LED with the PL spectrometer I gat the sharp blue peak but the yellow hump has a pronounced dip in the middle. Either the published spectra for white LEDs are highly smoother / idealised or perhaps the transmission characteristics of the green and red filters in my spectrometers camera don't overlap and are attenuating the frequencies in the middle of the yellow hump. 