---
node: What probes to get with data loggers?
author: cfastie
created_at: 2018-07-09 02:48:32 +0000
timestamp: 1531104512
nid: 16661
cid: 20028
uid: 554
---



[cfastie](../profile/cfastie) replying to: [What probes to get with data loggers?](../notes/pdhixenbaugh/07-08-2018/what-probes-to-get-with-data-loggers)

----
I was impressed by the price ($12.90) of the [DFRobot TDS sensor](https://www.dfrobot.com/product-1662.html) that MadTinker is working with so I bought a couple. It was easy to get it to work with a DS18B20 temperature sensor for temperature compensation. There is plenty of memory in a 328p Arduino (Mini Pearl or Riffle) to run both. I have not yet deployed it so I can't confirm that it will do what I want, but my requirements are low. I just want to track changes in sediment load in stream or spring water. Preliminary tests suggest it might work well for this.

The TDS meter measures electrical conductivity and uses that to derive total dissolved solids. I don't care what the actual units are, and I would not have much confidence in them anyway for long-term monitoring (electrode corrosion, fouling, etc). I just want a measure of conductivity that will tell me something about relative sediment load or dissolved solids. For example, is there a change after it rains?

Adding a radio to this data logger might be asking a lot of a 328p. A [Mini Pearl Logger](https://publiclab.org/wiki/mini-pearl-logger) (Arduino Pro Mini, SD card, and RTC) with the DFRobot TDS meter and a DS18B20 requires a sketch that uses about 60% of the available memory. When 75% of memory is used it becomes unreliable. So without skillful programming there might not be enough memory in a 328p to add wireless data transmission to this system. It might work without the RTC and SD card (the sketch can be smaller), and these are not necessary if the data are being sent somewhere that knows the time and can save the data. 

Because of this memory limitation, I started this project with a pair of Adafruit Feathers with LoRa radios. Feathers have plenty of memory (but cost ~3x more than the Mini Pearl solution). I got the radios to work, and I could send packets from my springhouse to my office. But when I added the DFRobot TDS sensor, the DS18B20, and FeatherWings for data logging (SD card and RTC) the Arduino Gods got angry and frowned upon me and my domain. I assume there were some pins being illegitimately shared by the FeatherWing and something else but I couldn't figure it out.

So I abandoned the radio idea and went back to the 328p (Mini Pearl) just logging data. The Arduino Gods continued to frown for a while, but I noticed some appeasement recently so maybe I can get this thing deployed someday. 

I bought some $7.00 bare-bones [LoRa radio modules](https://www.ebay.com/itm/433MHz-868MHz-915MHz-LoRa-TM-Wireless-Transceiver-Module-for-Remote-Aircraft-/332575803630?var=&hash=item4d6f1008ee) which could be added to the Mini Pearl Loggers. I assume it will require repeated fiery sacrifices and much fervent chanting to get these working.

Chris

