---
cid: 20076
node: [GSoC proposal: Computer Vision enhancements for Raspberry Pi based Public Lab Science Projects](../notes/MaggPi/03-20-2018/gsoc-proposal-computer-vision-enhancements-for-raspberry-pi-based-public-lab-science-projects)
nid: 15978
created_at: 2018-07-11 08:13:56 +0000
timestamp: 1531296836
uid: 501996
author: [MaggPi](../profile/MaggPi)
---

[@amirberAgain](/profile/amirberAgain), [@warren](/profile/warren), [@icarito](/profile/icarito)
This note is a GSOC phase 2 summary and updates phase 3 goals.

Phase 2:
Phase 2 research notes are posted at https://publiclab.org/profile/MaggPi.  Comments on software programs (posted at https://github.com/MargaretAN9) are listed below  :   

-Color detection – generates mask/ calculates HSV colorspace range.   Primary contribution was the use of trackbars for the user to easily select color range(s). (HSVcolortrackbar.py)
-Exposure control matrix  - Developed to get a systematic way to adjust Raspberry PI manual camera settings.   My real first experience with the multiple tunings necessary for  long exposures (up to 10 sec) and low frame rate.  (exposuremosaic.py)
-Microscope grid overlay with calibration.  Simple CV geometry functions permit scale reference.  Amazed that this works as well as it did.  (videooverlayfinal.py)
-Insect infrared microscopy – Simple contrast adjustments permit enhanced detail.  Effort demonstrates need for better focusing options and real time histogram optimization.

In addition to the research notes, additional ‘test’; code was tested on Fourier masks , real time measurement, histogram equalization and region of interest selection .  
On setback is that I have been unable to use 10bit RAW Raspberry Pi camera data.  I have tried different processing options but they all need color and lens corrections.  I have started work on HDR techniques as an alternative.   My initial review is that HDR may operate over a larger dynamic range than a 10 bit RAW image.     
    
Phase 3 Code deliverables: Spectroscopy and Microscope Applications (July 14 to Aug 14)
Goals were outlined in prior posts but are summarized below for convenience: 
 ‘The last phase will concentrate on applying some of the general processing options developed earlier to specific applications. Applications to be considered are NIR/G/B microscopy and spectral calibration. The general approach for spectral calibration is to see if multiple exposure settings and analyzing data from the higher spectral orders could be used for spectral analysis’. 

Week 9 –Real time  spectrographs Week 10 -Spectroscopic calibration for (near) real time spectroscopy Week 11 -Transmission spectroscopy experiment – objective is to extend the free spectral range Week 12 -Prepare documentation/final evaluation


[MaggPi](../profile/MaggPi) replying to: [GSoC proposal: Computer Vision enhancements for Raspberry Pi based Public Lab Science Projects](../notes/MaggPi/03-20-2018/gsoc-proposal-computer-vision-enhancements-for-raspberry-pi-based-public-lab-science-projects)

