---
node: Integrating User instructions into the Community Microscope build materials
author: MaggPi
created_at: 2018-07-12 10:06:29 +0000
timestamp: 1531389989
nid: 16668
cid: 20091
uid: 501996
---



[MaggPi](../profile/MaggPi) replying to: [Integrating User instructions into the Community Microscope build materials](../notes/jiteovien/07-09-2018/integrating-user-instructions-into-the-community-microscope-build-materials)

----
Hi , Ufuoma,
they all look good but I like V4 the best ( but  keep top/bottom labels from 1 thru 3).   The one with the numbered  steps. Colors work best  but design need to also be used for black/white printers.  Wish I had them before. 

Questions:  
Should the bolts holes be circular vs racetrack oval shape.   Is the intent to use a hole punch to make the cut?

Why is there an oval in the center?  Is the intent to add a 4th bolt?

Is the kit going to have holes precut?   These are assembly instructions vs cutting instructions.  I was more worried about cutting since if I make a mistake a may need to replace the board.   I can always rework assembly.  If cutting is DYI, cutting areas need to be marked  so as not to confuse with dashed lines.  Also, my hole punch that I had available restricted where I could place the holes. 

Board dimensions should be available if you want to build from scratch.  I could see someone printing this out and using it as a template.  Need to make sure scale doesn't change if printed.   

My view is that that there are three phases: - cutting, assembly and operation. The top board should probably have operational instructions since many  users will begin with an assembled system and will not need build  references.  


