---
cid: 20161
node: [Calibrating low cost air quality sensor (1/2)](../notes/jiteovien/07-18-2018/calibrating-low-cost-air-quality-sensor-1-2)
nid: 16745
created_at: 2018-07-18 21:09:15 +0000
timestamp: 1531948155
uid: 451611
author: [jeffalk](../profile/jeffalk)
---

Some hopefully helpful comments: 
particulate matter in air is very different than lead concentration in soil. PM2.5 has a regional aspect. To see this compare the four sensors over time for Providence that you mention (I'm assuming they are for pm2.5 and not pm10?) Use the shortest time periods available. The four sensors will track quite well. (Why is that the case?) I'd also suggest talking to the gov't agencies that placed the four sensors to learn about their placement criteria. I doubt that randomness is a criteria unless there is a unique problem in Providence. Most often they are placed far from any known local sources because most people do not live near a known local source. I have worked with issues of sand mining in Wisconsin. People want to understand what is coming from the mine not what is regional. How do you differentiate that from the regional aspect? Not easy.

Low cost sensors are low cost for reasons. Usually they are not factory calibrated.(The DYLOS is factory calibrated.) Their components are not of the highest quality so their specs will show high variability. Therefore whatever model you want to examine, you should work with at least two or three examples; you will need to show how to calibrate and get an idea of how the calibration will change over time and under different conditions. Public lab has been trying to deal with low cost sensors for a number of years. The difficulties are why you are now being tasked to try again. It is also important to take into consideration the reasons why someone wants to monitor. Different reasons call for different criteria for a "good" monitor for the purpose.

You've set yourself quite a task. Good luck.

[jeffalk](../profile/jeffalk) replying to: [Calibrating low cost air quality sensor (1/2)](../notes/jiteovien/07-18-2018/calibrating-low-cost-air-quality-sensor-1-2)

