---
cid: 20183
node: [What are the initial steps you take when you begin a new environmental data investigation?](../notes/sylvan/07-17-2018/what-are-the-initial-steps-you-take-when-you-begin-a-new-environmental-data-investigation)
nid: 16734
created_at: 2018-07-20 17:52:17 +0000
timestamp: 1532109137
uid: 540012
author: [sylvan](../profile/sylvan)
---

Thanks, Chris. I agree with what you've said. I can't imagine a tool that supports valid scientific arguments without the support of experts either.  I should have included more detail about what the tools would do and how they could be used. I'll do that now. 

This tool would be used to help people articulate research problems with the support of experts. I don't imagine it being used without this support. It wouldn't work and could be dangerous, as you indicated. 

To go from noticing something (e.g., "boy, it smells different in my neighborhood" or "everyone who cleaned up the beach seems to have gotten sick.") to studying an environmental concern is challenging and takes a lot of thought, even for trained scientists. We have to be able to clearly articulate what we think is happening and how we can study whether our hypotheses are supported by evidence.

I'm imagining a tool that structures the process of going from noticing something anecdotally to defining an actionable research design. The tool would structure 1) the definition of a research problem that 2) is measured by variables 3) which can actually be (or have been) collected 4) through a protocol that supports reliable data.

Curious if you have more thoughts...

[sylvan](../profile/sylvan) replying to: [What are the initial steps you take when you begin a new environmental data investigation?](../notes/sylvan/07-17-2018/what-are-the-initial-steps-you-take-when-you-begin-a-new-environmental-data-investigation)

