---
cid: 20253
node: [Air Quality Data Visualization: No Coding Necessary](../notes/jiteovien/08-01-2018/air-quality-data-visualization-no-coding-necessary)
nid: 16826
created_at: 2018-08-02 00:47:47 +0000
timestamp: 1533170867
uid: 451611
author: [jeffalk](../profile/jeffalk)
---

HI, Thanks for the update.  I have a few questions though. You are apparently enthralled by the EPA Air Quality Index. Why??  My understanding, at least for particulate matter PM2.5, it is based on 24 hour averages. In fact, the EPA regulations require 24 hour monitoring averages be from midnight to midnight and for public health concerns they modified the procedure to a moving 24 hour average.  But it is still a 24 hour average. Perhaps you should consult some people in public health and/or epidemiology to see what they think of 24 hour averages? and what time interval they would consider appropriate.  Then decide what time interval is appropriate for your calibration procedures.  Some examples where time intervals may be important:  sand mines or other industrial operations that do NOT operate 24 hours a day. Operating time is then averaged with non operating time. Similarly for air quality near heavily travelled roadways where the heaviest travel only occurs at certain times of the day and a 24 hour average would include heavy and non heavy travel. Perhaps I am jumping the gun and you were using AQI just because you wanted to explore the visualization tool? I would want the shortest time interval I could get and do the averaging on my own as I would find appropriate.    

[jeffalk](../profile/jeffalk) replying to: [Air Quality Data Visualization: No Coding Necessary](../notes/jiteovien/08-01-2018/air-quality-data-visualization-no-coding-necessary)

