---
node: Pharmaceutical class 100000 particulate as compared to pm2.5
author: jiteovien
created_at: 2018-08-21 21:29:40 +0000
timestamp: 1534886980
nid: 16959
cid: 20449
uid: 540008
---



[jiteovien](../profile/jiteovien) replying to: [Pharmaceutical class 100000 particulate as compared to pm2.5](../notes/Ag8n/08-18-2018/pharmaceutical-class-100000-particulate-as-compared-to-pm2-5)

----
Hello! 

So, pm2.5 and pm10 are typically measured in the unit _microgram per cubic meter_, μg/m^3. From what I've read about clean room standards, the clean room classifications are measured as _# of particles per cubic meter_. However, some clean room standards are measured as _# of particles per cubic foot_. So first, figure out if the particle counts you have are per m^3 or per ft^3. 

To convert from a particle count into a mass concentration, you have to make several assumptions about the particle:

- All particles are spherical
- All particles have a density of 1.65E12 μg/m^3 [1]
- The radius of a particle in the PM2.5 channel is 0.44 μm [2] 
- The radius of a particle in the PM10 channel is 2.60 μm [2] 

_caution: convert the aforementioned radius values into m^3 before doing this calculation_

With those assumptions, solve for the volume of each particle in m^3: 

= (4/3)*pi*radius^3 

then solve for the mass of each particle in micrograms, μg: 

= density*volume

and then solve for the concentration in μg/m^3 by multiplying:

= (# of particles per cubic meter) * mass 

If you're particle count is actually per ft^3 then you'll need an extra conversion factor:

(# of particles per cubic meter) = 0.0283168*(# of particles per cubic feet)


**Citations:**
[1] Tittarelli, T. et al., “Estimation of particle mass concentration in ambient air using a
particle counter,” Atmospheric Environment, vol. 42, pp. 8543-8548, 2008.

[2] Lee, J. et al., “Seasonal variations of particle size distributions of PAHs at Seoul,
South Korea,” Air Quality Atmospheric Health, vol. 1, pp. 57-68, 2008.