---
node: PM 2.5 Air Quality Index for Keller, Texas
author: jeffalk
created_at: 2018-09-02 17:21:02 +0000
timestamp: 1535908862
nid: 17012
cid: 20552
uid: 451611
---



[jeffalk](../profile/jeffalk) replying to: [PM 2.5 Air Quality Index for Keller, Texas](../notes/jiteovien/08-28-2018/pm-2-5-air-quality-index-for-keller-texas)

----
jiteovien: I realize you have put a considerable amount of effort into your project and are trying to do an excellent job.  I believe you are exhibiting an important misconception, one that I too, when I began being involved in air quality analysis, exhibited for a long time. I will confine my comments to your last sentence: "Besides, even if the AQI standard is meant to reflect a 24 hour average, I think a 1-hour average probably contains more useful information about what's in the air at different times of the day - which is what i want to know."   The transformation from concentration to AQI is a linear transformation and as such adds no new information. It is like a transformation from degrees centigrade to degrees farenheit. This is a difference of scale only. However I believe you are not just doing a scale transformation. You are including the "levels of health concern" categories. These health concern categories were set up by the epa on the basis of epidemiological evidence using 24 hour averages. It is speculation to attribute the same categories of health concern to concentrations or aqi's that are determined by using shorter times for averaging. There is little or no evidence that 5 minutes of exposure at aqi of 151 to 200 is "unhealthy" for example. It might very well be discomforting, maybe irritating, I don't know. But there is no reason to use the same "unhealthy" categorization as for a 24 hour average at that level. As illustration: some years ago I learned that almonds contain a very small amount of cyanide.   There are levels of cyanide ingestion that are very dangerous but so far the cyanide dangers of snacking on almonds have not been shown.  And although I tend to quiver when I hear cyanide mentioned, I still eat an almond once in a while. There is not the same health concern. I would maintain it is a similar misconception for the health concern aqi categories to be used at substantially shorter average time intervals. They were not designed to be used that way.   I agree with you. What I would want to know is what's in the air at different times and a concentration or aqi number would tell me that without the addition of an unsubstantiated "level of health concern".   And the fact that the aqi as a number, not a category, doesn't tell me any more than the concentration would, is why I prefer the straight forward concentration. But different people different ways.  Except for the epa which bases their pm regulations on 24 hour average concentrations only, and ignores the information, especially useful for attribution to local sources, of much shorter time intervals.
