---
cid: 20607
node: [What do you think about this new design sketch for a Welcome page?](../notes/warren/02-21-2018/what-do-you-think-about-this-new-design-sketch-for-a-welcome-page)
nid: 15796
created_at: 2018-09-07 19:01:17 +0000
timestamp: 1536346877
uid: 422561
author: [stevie](../profile/stevie)
---

Hi, 
I’m not sure all of these are UI focused, but related anyway. Some of these are big, and things we know about, but wanted to hold a spot for them here. Other ideas? Feedback?

**Issue** There are many entry points, and many ways to organize information, it’s confusing to newcomers

**Goal** The welcome page should be an easy page to navigate to help people understand what PL is, what’s available and see where they can jump off to do what they are interested in doing 

**Ideas** I honestly dont have great ideas for this one, but we’ve talked about categorizing types of knowledge sharing and linking out from there. I think it could work, but the materials to explain these things need to be concise, approachable from a visual standpoint, and easy to understand. 
______________
**Issue** The OpenCall isn’t prominently featured 

**Goal** Open Call is the lowest barrier for contact for most people. It should be easy to find

**Ideas** Can we put info on this somewhere people will see it when they first come? It would be great if there was also a link to add it to your calendar. 
____________
**Issue** We don’t show people how to do things 

**Goal** People can easily understand how to post to Public Lab, navigate the site, and find others from demonstrative walk throughs available through navigating the welcome page. 

**Ideas** we could offer video walkthroughs, hover over popups, or others? 
____________
**Issue** Users can’t see the versatility of the features 

**Goal** This is probably another page,  but there should be an off-ramp for those who aren’t newcomers, but are looking for features to navigate the site and post in a more detailed way. 

**Ideas** For example, a place that describes or shows the tagging system, powertags, inline features on research notes, different ways to search etc. 


[stevie](../profile/stevie) replying to: [What do you think about this new design sketch for a Welcome page?](../notes/warren/02-21-2018/what-do-you-think-about-this-new-design-sketch-for-a-welcome-page)

