---
cid: 20688
node: [Help us test public water fountains in NYC for lead!?](../notes/read_holman/08-30-2018/help-us-test-public-water-fountains-in-nyc-for-lead)
nid: 17027
created_at: 2018-09-15 13:44:08 +0000
timestamp: 1537019048
uid: 237313
author: [Bronwen](../profile/Bronwen)
---

Hi [@smmontgom](/profile/smmontgom) - Apologies for the slow reply, we've had a busy week! Off the top of my head, the lead-specific research in North Brooklyn has been happening around soil testing, while the water quality work that the NCA and NBBC does is focused on effects monitored in and around Newtown Creek (the concern of those groups tends to be on coping with the effects of ongoing and legacy industrial pollution, though the overlap between industry and infrastructure is naturally quite extensive). That doesn't mean that there aren't people or groups working on projects that might be more obviously aligned with yours, though I'm personally a little less aware of who might be a good contact. Attending some of the events held by either of those groups could be a good start towards getting to know who is already working on what in that area. That said, you seem to have just a few water fountains listed for all of North Brooklyn-- nothing much in the area where these groups operate: can you say a little more about how you chose your testing locations, and the ways you're hoping to collaborate with community groups on this project? 

Creating map visualizations and working towards media-friendly assessments of environmental issues is definitely a compelling way to communicate the scope and drive engagement around a problem (we love that stuff around here!). It would be awesome if there was a little more info about both your testing methods and the structure of this study available on your website-- I see that folks need to sign in to "join the cause" before being given further information. Is that something that you would be able to share more transparently? You describe the actual sampling method on another comment on another note, but I think more thorough communication on your project site would be a meaningful step towards building trust with your participants (and in responding to the people who will express criticism about your results). Either way, I look forward to hearing more about how this project works!

As for the DEP, I don't have a personal contact; local groups in North Brooklyn and Gowanus interact with the DEP and the EPA through Community Advisory Groups-- these are pretty structured relationships that focus on Superfund work, so they probably wouldn't be a fit for the water fountain survey (though if you were to uncover unusually high levels of contamination in water fountains that part of Brooklyn it could point to issues in limiting the impact of the Superfund work). If you are interested in learning more about the machinations of either of those organizations in relation to community work, it might be useful to attend one to two of the meetings just to get a sense of how things happen (these would not likely provide an opportunity to introduce your project during the meeting itself, but could lead to some interesting conversations). 

Thanks so much for posting about your project here! We'll be adding some resources about lead testing and advocacy work in NYC to the site in the coming weeks/months as some of our other projects evolve, so I hope you'll stick around to share more about this project and your perspective on NYC lead research in general. 

[Bronwen](../profile/Bronwen) replying to: [Help us test public water fountains in NYC for lead!?](../notes/read_holman/08-30-2018/help-us-test-public-water-fountains-in-nyc-for-lead)

