---
cid: 20762
node: [Mapir Survey3 RGN image processing pipeline](../notes/mrodriguezorejuela/09-28-2018/mapir-survey3-rgn-image-processing-pipeline)
nid: 17185
created_at: 2018-10-01 19:18:07 +0000
timestamp: 1538421487
uid: 554
author: [cfastie](../profile/cfastie)
---

That's too bad about the proprietary Mapir calibration. Is there information about the spectral reflectivity of the calibration targets? If not, those targets will not be of much use to you unless you can measure their spectral response.

The [Photo Monitoring plugin for FIji](https://publiclab.org/notes/nedhorning/01-13-2016/packaged-photo-monitoring-plugins-available-on-the-github-repositoy
) has a calibration routine. It requires that you have targets of known spectral reflectivity to put into the photos.

Learning about the amount of each wavelength that is captured in each channel of a camera is not easy. There are data about this for certain cameras, but there is very little data for cameras after they have been modified by removing the IR cut filter. There is a [discussion of the Canon PowerShot A2200](https://groups.google.com/forum/#!searchin/plots-infrared/article|sort:date/plots-infrared/aJhM30D6bUM/zuZqlFYiHQAJ) which was the subject of a study in which [they measured the spectral response of the camera](https://www.researchgate.net/publication/281464426_Estimation_of_the_spectral_sensitivity_functions_of_un-modified_and_modified_commercial_off-the-_shelf_digital_cameras_to_enable_their_use_as_a_multispectral_imaging_system_for_UAVs) before modification, with the IR cut filter removed, and then with a red cutoff filter (like the one in your Mapir). 

To create similar data on spectral response of a camera, some fancy equipment is required. You could get a cruder version of this information by illuminating a scene with individual LEDs of known emittance. There are inexpensive LEDs with narrow spectral ranges (e.g., all red, all blue, or all NIR). So if you can trust the LED to emit only NIR, then you can illuminate a white surface, take a photo, and see if any light is captured in each camera channel (R,G,B). It is very difficult to quantify the intensity of light in each channel unless you can capture RAW image files and you know how to use them (jpeg photos produced by a camera will have been subjected to various manipulations including white balance and gamma correction). 

If you don't trust the LED specifications, you can check them with a simple spectrometer like the ones sold by Public Lab. That would require that you learn how to check the specifications of the spectrometer.

Careful inspection of the detailed spectral response graphs of the PowerShot A2200 in the article above can allow a good estimate of how to modify the photo data to compensate for NIR or UV contaminating a channel used for visible light data, or for visible light contaminating the NIR channel. Using a DIY technique with LEDs may or may not allow such meaningful estimates.

Chris

The links cited above are listed below because the edit window was not allowing link insertion or preview.

https://publiclab.org/notes/nedhorning/01-13-2016/packaged-photo-monitoring-plugins-available-on-the-github-repositoy

https://groups.google.com/forum/#!searchin/plots-infrared/article|sort:date/plots-infrared/aJhM30D6bUM/zuZqlFYiHQAJ

https://www.researchgate.net/publication/281464426_Estimation_of_the_spectral_sensitivity_functions_of_un-modified_and_modified_commercial_off-the-_shelf_digital_cameras_to_enable_their_use_as_a_multispectral_imaging_system_for_UAVs

[cfastie](../profile/cfastie) replying to: [Mapir Survey3 RGN image processing pipeline](../notes/mrodriguezorejuela/09-28-2018/mapir-survey3-rgn-image-processing-pipeline)

