---
node: What do you think about this new design sketch for a Welcome page?
author: liz
created_at: 2018-10-06 02:14:59 +0000
timestamp: 1538792099
nid: 15796
cid: 20815
uid: 7
---



[liz](../profile/liz) replying to: [What do you think about this new design sketch for a Welcome page?](../notes/warren/02-21-2018/what-do-you-think-about-this-new-design-sketch-for-a-welcome-page)

----
Hi [@edie_blues](/profile/edie_blues)! It's so energizing to see this page come to life! Thank you for pouring attention into this. You asked some numbered questions above, so here goes: 

1. There will be newcomers from a variety of backgrounds seeing this. 

Some may be new to science and technology but who are seeking some way to start addressing concerning environmental issues affecting themselves or others; generally speaking, historically this group has been faced with unwelcoming experiences when reaching out to science and tech for help. 
Some may be professionals with technical or scientific knowledge who have never participated in an open source community (so they may be unaware of the norms). 
* and a whole range of folks in general!

In terms of why are we telling them to sign up... we might be highlighting this page to people who aren't logged in, or on people's dashboard who have not posted anything yet. Signing up is how to subscribe to stay updated on topics you care about, and we could suggest that new joiners subscribe to the newsletter tag so get our nicest monthly newsletter. 

2. For topics, it's nice to have images, and your use of the word `cause` is interesting. I've never heard us use that terms, we usually use `topics` `issues` but `cause` has a nice ring in that it links the issue to advocacy right away. I'm wondering how to offer people a limited tag search box like what we have on https://publiclab.org/questions. In there, you can just type `air` and all tags that include air pop-up -- It's a great way to browse. Also see the main tag page https://publiclab.org/tags. For other areas of the site where we've started featuring tags, we made an easy way so staff could adjust the list to highlight emerging or time-sensitive topics. Just sharing in case this helps you get a good idea for how to handle this section. 

3. https://publiclab.org/methods might be a good way to show collections of methods that people are using to work towards their causes. It has a sort of cool "sort on page" function at the top that's unique on our site (so far). Otherwise, the `Store` does have an entire standalone link on the top menu bar, so it is getting a lot of real estate. 

Some other thoughts: 

* I like the feeling that comes from the statement "You're the expert" but i have mixed feelings about this phrasing overall. Expertism is so problematic that i'm hard-pressed to be excited to further encourage it vs other frames like "beginner's mind" (no matter how advanced) and "solidarity - we're in this together". 
* i'm not sure where the link `our network of organizers` will go, perhaps /people? i think we should not use the term organizer because its use is decreasing in our community and local community organizers are active in PL without opting to take on the role of "PL organizer"
* the mix of circular and square images kind of hurts my eyes, but i'm not a graphic designer. 
* it's a little daunting to see pages we wish we had but actually need a lot of work so prominently featured -- /requests and /projects but we'll get there :)!

Not sure if any of this is helpful, but thanks for reading, and i'll be following your next steps with interest!