---
node: What do you think about this new design sketch for a Welcome page?
author: edie_blues
created_at: 2018-10-07 20:40:48 +0000
timestamp: 1538944848
nid: 15796
cid: 20823
uid: 552521
---



[edie_blues](../profile/edie_blues) replying to: [What do you think about this new design sketch for a Welcome page?](../notes/warren/02-21-2018/what-do-you-think-about-this-new-design-sketch-for-a-welcome-page)

----
Hi [@liz](/profile/liz)! 

Thank you very much for your response! :) It's very helpful and I was anxious to hear what you think! 

1. Yes, I think the "cause" would be great for people that are particularly passionate about a certain environmental issue. And given that the questions are nicely tagged, it's very straightforward to send people to articles tagged with "air" once they've clicked on the air pollution image. Do you know who I ask about the copy (the text under the images)? 

2. I'll think about where to feature the kits and the tools. My impression from following Public Lab on social media is that people are very keen to showcase their new kits and that many like the really hands-on approach of doing something themselves. Would it be possible to get the information on the most popular products from the store so that we can feature those?

3. I like "we're in this together", will change to that (instead of You're the expert)

4. I think the copy about Public Lab needs some work and could be clearer. I showed the website to a couple of people that have never used Public Lab before and they were unsure about what the organisation does. I'll work on that too. 

Liz, your input was of great help. Is there anywhere else that I should ask about the feedback? The chatroom? (any specific time/specific place?)

Thank you again!

Eva