---
node: Water flow sensor for shower?
author: marmdavis
created_at: 2018-10-17 18:52:41 +0000
timestamp: 1539802361
nid: 17299
cid: 20918
uid: 555019
---



[marmdavis](../profile/marmdavis) replying to: [Water flow sensor for shower?](../notes/marmdavis/10-16-2018/water-flow-sensor-for-shower)

----
[@Bronwen](/profile/Bronwen)  I am trying to make this a separate device solely for collecting data. The first piece of this was just an Arduino programmed to display shower duration and water usage in that time (by just multiplying time by water flow) and 2 buttons (one that started this timer and one that stopped it as well as write the data to an SD card). The problem was that we had to collect the control data (before the intervention) manually and sit in the bathroom and time how long people's showers were discretely. The device I would like to make would take the manual labor factor out of this study so I could just collect data without having to physically be there and (creepily) time people's showers. 

[@cfastie](/profile/cfastie)  As for the shower head, I would be attaching these to the showers in the dorms at UMass so I probably am not allowed to take the shower head apart. My main goal would be to have the movement of the water start a timer and once the water is shut off to stop the timer and have that data collected. The timer itself does not need to be incorporated quite yet; only a device that can detect the start and end of a shower as well as save the data is all I need. It doesn't need to be too concealed (it could rest on the pipes) but it just can't be SUPER obvious. 

Thanks for all your advice! I'm no engineer (just a biology major) and this engineering stuff is very new to me. 