---
cid: 21023
node: [Inexpensive conductivity probe for drinking water monitoring network](../notes/roberts_ecofarm/10-24-2018/inexpensive-conductivity-probe-for-drinking-water-monitoring-network)
nid: 17383
created_at: 2018-10-28 16:39:45 +0000
timestamp: 1540744785
uid: 556121
author: [roberts_ecofarm](../profile/roberts_ecofarm)
---

Clarifying - 
1. Ideally Id like to upload daily.  For some sites I will be able to connect to the web either through wifi or through cell service.  Some site hosts have agreed to this.  (that will increase the cost of the unit a bit, but we will work with that to get current data.  The other sites may have to store data for a month or more.  I was thinking of hourly sampling just to give a rich data set and to catch incursions early.  Each unit will need a built in backup data storage unit.  This is one reason I really like what Ed has done with Cave Pearl.  
2. Form limitations.  We will be going into a mix of sites. Some attach to residential plumbing inside a house.  Some will be at the well head outside. Others will be deployed in streams and springs.  So form is a mixed bag.  
3.Accuracy - We have two goals with this project. First, we what to know what is going on with our water, so monitoring change is key.  Second, if there is change we want to be able to push for action.  That means the data needs to be good enough to get the attention and action of the EPA at the State level.  If we can get something simple that works reliably and doesn't break the bank, I expect it will get repeated in other areas of our state at least.

[roberts_ecofarm](../profile/roberts_ecofarm) replying to: [Inexpensive conductivity probe for drinking water monitoring network](../notes/roberts_ecofarm/10-24-2018/inexpensive-conductivity-probe-for-drinking-water-monitoring-network)

