---
node: What do you think about this new design sketch for a Welcome page?
author: joyofsoy
created_at: 2018-10-31 16:29:31 +0000
timestamp: 1541003371
nid: 15796
cid: 21065
uid: 540844
---



[joyofsoy](../profile/joyofsoy) replying to: [What do you think about this new design sketch for a Welcome page?](../notes/warren/02-21-2018/what-do-you-think-about-this-new-design-sketch-for-a-welcome-page)

----
Awesome work [@edie_blues](/profile/edie_blues)! You're doing a great job!

Just a few ideas—not sure that they'll all be good ideas:

-Under "Find a cause," I love how the three topics look with the round thumbnail and brief description. There are then 8 others included below as buttons/tags. To view the full list of topics, you have to click out to another page (the helpful-but-not-pretty /tags page). What do you think of adding the functionality to scroll left/right through causes, so all topics would have a round thumbnail and description like "Air Quality," "Waste," and "Water Quality" currently do?

-Under "Community Science," not a big concern, but wondering if it would make sense to standardize the look of the three blurbs a bit more. Maybe by putting I, II, and III on tiles or formatting differently, we can end up with the headlines all on one horizontal line, and all the blue buttons below them also straight in a row. I sometimes push too hard for symmetry, so take that with a grain of salt.

-My instinct is that I'd like to see an About Us and Donate button somewhere, but I think that would probably be better solved in future Top Bar Navigation discussions.

Thank you for all of your hard work!
