---
cid: 21138
node: [Outreachy proposal: Improve statistics system for publiclab](../notes/radhikadua/10-30-2018/outreachy-proposal-improve-statistics-system-for-publiclab)
nid: 17427
created_at: 2018-11-05 15:14:39 +0000
timestamp: 1541430879
uid: 556474
author: [radhikadua](../profile/radhikadua)
---

[@warren](/profile/warren) Thanks a lot for the detailed review of the proposal!

> for Week 4: Select js chart library and add "No. of subscribers per tag" chart. - I do wonder if this could get the project bogged down a bit, since there have been several chart lib changes and there might be a lot of refactoring. I am slightly in favor of leaving this until later in the project, and making due with simpler charts that are possible with the current libraries, until the relatively complex back-end work is more developed. But I could be persuaded! :-)

I understand your concerns and yeah, I can work on backend stuff before working on frontend.

> This sounds great, esp. the unit tests. I did want to ask if you thought the API (grape/swagger) was the right place to implement this -- i think it may be, just want to think through it! Would that make integration with, for example, GrimoireLab easier, because Grape/Swagger is so standardized? Does Grape/Swagger have standard ways to generate CSV?

Oh, I didn't know about grape/swagger. Thanks for specifying about it. Seems like with Grape, we can specify the content type and it's upto the developer how she wants to format the content. They have provided the custom formatter option in which we can specify how to format our content. Also it allows specifying download response header for an endpoint. So, I think it will be perfect for creating API endpoints. I'll research more about it to know it better.

About the GrimoireLab, I think I misunderstood some things about it. I have created a comment on https://github.com/publiclab/plots2/issues/3498#issuecomment-435880361 to clear some things. Though for the GrimoireLab's perceval tool, it would work fine both ways - with and without using Grape/Swagger.

> Do you prefer this to making additional formats available in the stats_controller, and why? This is an interesting point so I just wanted to dig into it a bit and hear your thoughts, thanks!

Yes, earlier I planned to add them into the controller but after you told me about grape, I think they will go into the `api` instead of `controller`.

I'll be adding option of additional formats in the `api`. In my implementation of these range based charts, I'll just add GET APIs which won't render any view. They would directly be responding with data in some format. Since for browser/js, json works best, so I'll be responding with json by default. Also, using this approach, exact same API would be used for requesting data for download either in json or csv format.


Let me describe it a bit by code to make things more clear:


stats_module:

    def get_some_foo_stats(type)
      stats = []
      # Fetch stats from db and append it to array
      return stats
    end

stats_api:

    class NotesServer < Grape::API
      default_format :json
      formatter :csv, CSVFormatter

      resource :stats do
        desc 'Return stats for publiclab'
        params do
          requires :type, type: String, desc: 'Stats type.'
        end
        route_param :type do
          get do
            # Get data from Stats module
            Stats.get_some_foo_stats(params[:type])
          end
        end
      end
    end

stats_controller: Empty for range based APIs

stats_view: Empty for range based APIs

I'll add up more details in the proposal about where I'll be adding these parts of code.

> Your idea for a secondary read-only helper database (let's avoid the term slave as other software projects have done, happily) is pretty interesting -- do you have any links or resources related to doing this in Rails? Thanks!

Here's the project which we can use : https://github.com/thiagopradi/octopus

We only have to use replication feature of this project. Sharding feature is more complex one which we don't need as of now.

> I like all the thinking you're putting into optimization. I think actually a lot of optimization can come from what the UI defaults are -- for example, if we offer monthly stats, and they're for specific calendar months instead of just 30-day ranges, people will tend to use those over and over, making caching more effective. We don't have to forbid other types of queries, but the defaults will be much more heavily used. But all these approaches will be useful, no doubt. Great details here!

Yes, you are right. We will first cache the results of the UI defaults. For the range based queries, caching logic would be quite complex if we want to make generic one. Read-only db can be helpful in that case.

I can try to explain caching logic in case of range based queries:

Steps:

1. We will create a script which will cache all the results weekly. On first deployment, we will run it over all the weeks till now. Now in the cache, we have stats saved weekly.

2. On every weekend, we will run a cronjob which will run on the server and cache the stats of the last week.

3. When user selects range like 2-10-2018 to 29-10-2018 - we will get weekly stats from cache for all the weeks which include above given dates. Since the starting week and ending week, which contains start date and end date respectively, have some extra days which has to be excluded from the stats. So, we will get those stats by querying db for those extra days and substract it from previously computed week stats.

This is just a basic idea in which we need to think about the generic solution, edge cases etc. I don't plan to implement this technique because implementing this won't be easy due to time constraints.


> The only thing I'd finish with is to say that you should be sure to pace yourself -- don't exhaust yourself, and find a pacing which you can sustain, and have fun! Thanks again!

Haha, it's just that I'm quite happy as well as exicted to work on these problems. So, I might be over doing things a bit.

[radhikadua](../profile/radhikadua) replying to: [Outreachy proposal: Improve statistics system for publiclab](../notes/radhikadua/10-30-2018/outreachy-proposal-improve-statistics-system-for-publiclab)

