---
node: Treating policy as code
author: read_holman
created_at: 2018-12-12 05:12:29 +0000
timestamp: 1544591549
nid: 17825
cid: 21495
uid: 540243
---



[read_holman](../profile/read_holman) replying to: [Treating policy as code](../notes/liz/12-07-2018/treating-policy-as-code)

----
Thanks for posting this [@liz](/profile/liz). A good intro to the topic and great conversation starter. 

I've been noodling on what a specific example might be (within the domain of distributed lead-related policy making). It'd be nice to identify a fairly straight forward item to test this approach with. To that end, Medicaid might make for a interesting first area of study (first for us, probably not for the world out there). Medicaid has long been an area of research interest for folks in health care as its state run with federal stuff thrown in. A lot of people out there studying the effectiveness of particular Medicaid practices, comparing across states, etc. I imagine someone out there is doing that comparison via text mining, but not sure. Even smaller chance that someone is doing text mining on lead-related Medicaid policies. So... might be a good opportunity. 

The way it works: Medicaid requires (States to require) children to be tested. States can vary the number of tests required and the ages of those tests and level of enforcement / reimbursement involved to ensure this actually happens. Doctors that find lead poisoning in that testing are supposed to report it to the county health department which is supposed to do a home inspection to find the source of that lead. Note the multiple uses of the phrase "supposed to"... But to be clear: The entire public health lead poisoning prevention infrastructure -- in every county in the country -- is currently built on a child showing up to the doctor and getting tested for lead by that doctor (cynically, people like me are like: "Why are we using children as our lead detection monitors?"). 

So yeah, could be interesting. I'll post a few links here for background, though I haven't done a deep dive into this topic yet: 

Medicaid: Lead Screening
https://www.medicaid.gov/medicaid/benefits/epsdt/lead-screening/index.html

State Health Care Delivery Policies Promoting Lead Screening and Treatment for
Children and Pregnant Women (5.21.18)
https://nashp.org/wp-content/uploads/2018/05/NASHP-Lead-Policy-Scan-5-21-18_updated.pdf 

Using Medicaid Data to Improve Childhood Lead Poisoning Prevention Program Outcomes and Blood Lead Surveillance
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/30507770

Millions of American children missing early lead tests, Reuters finds
https://www.reuters.com/investigates/special-report/lead-poisoning-testing-gaps/

I have a number of thoughts on the specific design of an effort, but that would take a lot to type out. And anyways: It'd be good to get reactions to this particular study topic I've thrown out before diving into the study design anyways. Reactions useful...
