---
node: Public Lab Dashboard - new design ideas 
author: edie_blues
created_at: 2019-01-03 17:36:36 +0000
timestamp: 1546536996
nid: 17890
cid: 21635
uid: 552521
---



[edie_blues](../profile/edie_blues) replying to: [Public Lab Dashboard - new design ideas ](../notes/edie_blues/12-13-2018/public-lab-dashboard-new-design-ideas)

----
 Hi [@warren](/profile/warren), [@roberts_ecofarm](/profile/roberts_ecofarm) and [@liz](/profile/liz)

thank you for your comments! I'll answer all of you here, but the numbers are following Jeff's post. 

I'll start a new thread for the questions' page as suggested - most likely tomorrow - I'll add a screenshot, but I would still like to keep the two designs on one page so that it's easier to see how they connect :) 

And as for the other comments: <br>

1. done :)  <br>
2. depends on the numbers of projects in the area I guess. We could also just display a list of people and projects in my city: (this would assume that: a. we collect the user's city when they register, or,  alternatively, they can choose to share their location once they click the location pin - and this is saved to their profile, b. we tag all projects with a location) <br>
Here we could also feature users (to make it more personable, like Jeff suggested), for example most active users by topic (only the topics I follow, a.k.a. my areas of interest), or users by distance, i.e. user "edieblue" is 80km away (also referring to your comment below) <br>

3. My projects would lead to projects I started, starred, contributed to, followed, commented on. <br>

4. I would suggest that once the user clicks the input, it expands into a larger white box and everything that the user writes is considered a draft. Once the user clicks  Publish they will be prompted to: add a title (required), add tags (required), location (this could be a drop-down menu and could be "global" if not related to specific location). Ideally "my city" and global would appear on top of the drop-down.  <br>
There would be a radio button for saying whether this is a research note or a question.<br>
We should also display the recently used tags so that publishing would be faster (would that help  [@roberts_ecofarm](/profile/roberts_ecofarm)?)<br>
I think the user should be able to write and draft at a click of a button, however, the actual publishing should require a little bit more thought (adding the necessary title, tags, location etc). I could be wrong, of course :) 

5. I think adding a number of activities, for example, "air-quality (12)" would be useful (like Liz suggested). We could add a "follow" sign to the items that aren't followed yet. It would be good to display all topics so the user gets an instant overview of what topics are hot (because they have a high activity number). If all activity (research notes, questions, projects etc) were nicely tagged, this would serve as a good system to organise the information (referring to your question below). Note that I consider "comments" activity as well. 

6. done :) 

Thank you again for taking your time :) 

I've updated the design to illustrate what I mean. The design is available here: https://edieblu.github.io/pl-dashboard/



