---
node: Brainstorming for Summer of Code 2019
author: warren
created_at: 2019-01-07 16:08:57 +0000
timestamp: 1546877337
nid: 18047
cid: 21656
uid: 1
---



[warren](../profile/warren) replying to: [Brainstorming for Summer of Code 2019](../notes/warren/01-02-2019/brainstorming-for-summer-of-code-2019)

----
 Interesting! I wonder if we might consider a couple things -- an electron-based app that uses largely the same code as the website but is accessible offline? Or something like electron but that runs on Android/iOS... 

This might connect with the idea of a client-side framework as well. 

One thing we might try to do to approach this in a modular way with minimal disruption could be to think of an initial "app" which does some, but not all, of what the plots2 front-end does. For example, it might be essentially the dashboard, but not include (in an initial implementation) an editor. It might have a way to view a note or wiki, but not have all the many features of those pages unless you "open the full page" so to speak. 

The client side system might be launched in parallel to the existing dashboard without replacing it. Then additional views might be built, tested, and added to it gradually. Functions which need a more robust back-end API might be ported as part of this process. 

This is just an idea - i think we should think carefully about a large project like this. It may be that we have other priorities like a tag visualization system, better spam management, or a Notifications API which take precedence. We should be careful not to displace those projects. But I really love the brainstorming and careful thought that's going into conceptualizing this and exploring its pros and cons. It may be that we decide that we have enough community to do all the above without compromise! Thank you all! 