---
cid: 21674
node: [Public Lab Dashboard - new design ideas ](../notes/edie_blues/12-13-2018/public-lab-dashboard-new-design-ideas)
nid: 17890
created_at: 2019-01-08 22:13:45 +0000
timestamp: 1546985625
uid: 540012
author: [sylvan](../profile/sylvan)
---

 Hi Eva,

I love what you are doing and so excited about how it will improve the PL site.  I particularly appreciate you are working to streamline the user experience, making it easier for users to  know what they can do. It's going in such a great direction and I'm super excited!

I wanted to bring up something that I don't see in the comments yet and that is responsive design. 

Eva, you surely know this, but just in case others some others don't: responsive design is when the layout and graphics change based on the size and proportions of a screen size. If you are on a computer or other big screen and you make the window with Eva's mockups the size of a phone, you will see its responsive behavior.

When you view the mockup link on a phone, there's a lot of white space and it's hard to know where you are in the content because the three columns collapse into one column. One solution is to make all of the filtering drop-down with facets hidden until you open them. You could even eliminate the left column altogether if you did that and save a lot of screen real estate for content. I also am curious about how you plan to do the button-like features so that they are appropriately responsive.

I'd also encourage everyone to explore the ways that [flat design](https://speckyboy.com/flat-web-design/) that trended in a couple years ago and is still popular.  This approach get a lot (justified) push back because it has a tendency to hide content too much, which would not suit the PL site. But I wonder how we can think about bringing in aspects of this approach to improve clarity and focus.

If you look at WordPress's yearly themes [as shown in this blog post,](https://www.designbombs.com/default-wordpress-themes/) you can get a feel for how design has changed over the last few years. You can see how the less cluttered approach has trended in and is being refined. Are there ways that the PL site increase clarity through flat techniques? Food for thought.

Thanks!

[sylvan](../profile/sylvan) replying to: [Public Lab Dashboard - new design ideas ](../notes/edie_blues/12-13-2018/public-lab-dashboard-new-design-ideas)

