---
cid: 21672
node: [Brainstorming for Summer of Code 2019](../notes/warren/01-02-2019/brainstorming-for-summer-of-code-2019)
nid: 18047
created_at: 2019-01-08 13:00:13 +0000
timestamp: 1546952413
uid: 568159
author: [IgorWilbert](../profile/IgorWilbert)
---

[@warren](/profile/warren) since both use JavaScript to manipulate HTML, CSS etc., their functionality could be the same, except for that in the mobile version it is not necessary to verify browser support. On the Notification API issue you asked what would happen if two pages were opened at the same time. Several notifications systems (e. g. from LinkedIn or Facebook) work in a way such that notifications pop up in all open pages and if the user sees the notification in one window/page, the notification in other windows disappears as soon as the page is automatically refreshed (the notification is marked as "seen" in the shared backend).
To access the relevance of a mobile app, I checked two fairly trust worth sources [1] [2]. In terms of market share and usage, mobile and desktop together have nearly 100% of the total, each with around 50%. According to [2], in the past two years there was an increase of about 8% in the usage of mobile technologies in the sectors of Science and People and Society. So it is reasonable to expect that once a mobile app for Public Lab (even if very simple, just to view content) is released, the number of people reached eventually will double.
I agree with [@gauravano](/profile/gauravano) about that it would be important to enable moderation functionalities in the mobile app such as to facilitate the work of moderators, and enable Google Analytics would be quite easy too. Other organizations I contribute to, such as Mifos Initiative and Fossasia, already developed mobile versions of their software (even mobile exclusive software) and the projects weren't abandoned in the long term. We only need to be careful to be open to the biggest number of developers possible. Developing for both Android and iOS is an important step in this direction.

[1] Statcounter - Desktop vs Mobile vs Tablet Market Share Worldwide
<http://gs.statcounter.com/platform-market-share/desktop-mobile-tablet>


[2] Stone Temple - Mobile vs Desktop Usage in 2018: Mobile takes the lead
<https://www.stonetemple.com/mobile-vs-desktop-usage-study/>

[IgorWilbert](../profile/IgorWilbert) replying to: [Brainstorming for Summer of Code 2019](../notes/warren/01-02-2019/brainstorming-for-summer-of-code-2019)

