---
node: Brainstorming for Summer of Code 2019
author: rexagod
created_at: 2019-01-19 07:35:51 +0000
timestamp: 1547883351
nid: 18047
cid: 21765
uid: 564358
---



[rexagod](../profile/rexagod) replying to: [Brainstorming for Summer of Code 2019](../notes/warren/01-02-2019/brainstorming-for-summer-of-code-2019)

----
 Hello [@warren](/profile/warren)! Below are my thoughts on some of the ideas I'd love to see implemented in the Editor. Please have a look.

## My Ideas (for the PL.Editor)

### Complete React migration

- **The world of components:** Components can be implemented to bring different levels of abstraction to the codebase. We can use them to encapsulate similar behaviors in the Editor and group the different ones to create a new behaviour altogether! Components ensure a much more modifiable and readable codebase by providing the bottom-up approach of design.

- **Stateful, or stateless?** React allows you to decide beforehand whether you want your component to work in *states* or not. Say we need to implement the History module in React. Now the history component maintains "saving" and "not saving" states at any given instant that trigger based on some event logic, say after a number of lines typed by the user and stores the progress. In this particular case we can easily employ a stateful component to fulfill our need to manage local state and need to add logic for event handlers. However, we do not need to maintain any states or employ any logic in order to store the progress of the user. Here we may use a stateless component that simply fetches the top stack element and sends it to the `ple-textarea` component whenever the user wants to cut back to a previous version. We can also use **Redux** that comes with Redux DevTools for amazing debugging 
 possiblities, better state management and an improved workflow altogether.

- **Life(saving!)cycles:** Like anything else in the world, a component comes into existence by birth, grows by getting updates , and after some amout of time, dies, that is, every **class(stateful)** component, initializes, mounts, updates, and finally unmounts. I won't go into explaining every single one of these here as that would be unnecessary, so instead let's take up an example of when Lifecycles might be of our help. Suppose we need to design an new image upload feature for the Editor. Now one thing we need to understand here is that lifecycles can make our components very detailed in terms of behaviour defining an action for almost every state it is expected to encounter in its lifetime. Whether this is implemented as a **React** Native app, a DPWA, or a web app, we would want to make sure that if the image is too large, the application continues to upload that in the background when the user switches apps without breaking the upload process. Also, we may want to "integrate" a different technique when the network speed drops below a certain limit for the image upload. To achieve all of this, React allows up to manipulate the cycles to our needs.

- **Virtual DOM:** The Virtual DOM allows the UI to be efficient in diffing UI changes. This step is where React actually does most of its work. It does this using the difference between **the last declared render** and the **updated render** in a virtual model of the interface, applying to it the real interface implementation. Hence, React batches the minimum amount of changes needed in each UI cycle, reducing the redraw frequency. [Here's a CodePen](https://codepen.io/pen?editors=0010) depicting this. Notice that when you open up the DevTools you will only see the time element refreshing (that is, the diff), and not all of the page at every interval.

### Electron implementation

- **Testing using Spectron and Mocha (using Chai):** After pointing the tests to our app's .app or .exe, we'll use Chai and Chai-as-Promised as our helper packages. Tests will more or less be in the same style as Jasmine so contributors shouldn't face a problem writing one.

- **UI/UX additional support through Photon:** Photon is all about that integrated, rich and native feel you get when you execute a proper, solid and well developed application on your system. Action bars, multiple tabs(writing different stuff side by side), Navigational bookmarks, and the Entypo icon font set are the currently staged enhancements I've thought about.

- **OS exclusive and native cross-platform features:** For eg., in macOS 10.14 Mojave, Apple introduced a new system-wide dark mode for all macOS computers. By default Electron apps do not automatically adjust their UI and native interfaces to the dark mode setting when it's enabled. To do so we will toggle our app's dark mode that will be dependant on Mojave's system settings. Native notifications can also be used to capture the user's immediate attention and can be easily constructed in Electron.

- ** Comparatively better performance than native apps:** Breaking this up, we have ** (1) Booting: ** We'll implement measures such as resolving require() calls ahead of time so that fs.readFileSync() does not trouble us during boot time. Also to achieve high performance while booting, we'll use bendrucker's document-ready package to get the ready signal before executing any non-UI critical code. ** (2) Prerendering: ** This can drastically cut down load time (upto 50%) so that the browser can get to painting things on the screen without having to interpret and execute JS in the first place. We'll be making use of patroza's prerender package for this. ** (3) Idle backgrounds loading using `on-idle`: ** We can use this package to load all our processes that can wait, for eg., checking for updates.

- **Shipping and Automated Updates:** We'll leave this for `electron-builder` to handle.

Having said all this, I have a decent amount of interest in the **Editor Overhaul** Core-Mission-Driven-Project and look forward to working on it as my GSoC'19 project.

Thanks!