---
cid: 21818
node: [Do you like this design for keeping track of events and projects?](../notes/edie_blues/01-29-2019/do-you-like-this-design-for-keeping-track-of-events-and-projects)
nid: 18200
created_at: 2019-01-30 22:14:48 +0000
timestamp: 1548886488
uid: 540844
author: [joyofsoy](../profile/joyofsoy)
---

We've had some discussions about site navigation and the need to have stories more visible for newcomers, especially those who don't know what we do—so they can understand the broad scope of the Public Lab community's work. 

In my dreams, we'd have a topbar navigation similar to the https://www.fastcompany.com/ site, where the buttons along the top (on their site, where it says CO.DESIGN, TECH, WORK LIFE, etc.) would be variables that are essentially just tags. (Click on TECH, for example, and you end up at https://www.fastcompany.com/technology) The navigation of the site would essentially be a glorified tag search. 

Variables could be things like:
<ul>
<li>stories (pollution from the Tonawanda Coke factory, industrial sand mining in Wisconsin, flooding in Pensacola)</li>
<li>issues (climate change, factory farming, lead contamination)</li>
<li>methods/technology/kits (spectrometry, microscopy, trawlers, odor logs)</li>
<li>region (NYC, Gulf South, Southeast Asia)</li>
<li>events</li>
</ul>

The goal is that I'd be able to easily share with others all of our stories related to climate change, for example, in a way where the results are like items—a clear "these are the fifteen stories we have related to climate change," instead of getting results of six notes about community workshops and three notes about kits and twenty questions about hurricanes—all tagged with climate change. Similarly, if I'm interested issues related to landfills in China, I'd love to be able to navigate to that in two clicks (hover of Issues and dropdown to landfills, then refine search to region: China).

A change like this is obviously a huge proposal, a total reworking of the site, and much more than the scope of your work on this project, [@edie_blues](/profile/edie_blues), but that's some background about where I'd like to end up.

I agree with [@liz](/profile/liz) that it would be a big editorial burden, at least at first, to tag and categorize everything so neatly, but it's something I would be excited to take on. If we're worried that researchers aren't doing these things themselves, perhaps they would if we built it into the posting process with a few (required) dropdowns to choose from.

Ultimately, I just worry that it's currently too hard for people to find the content they're looking for, and that there isn't a clear hierarchy in the structure of the site.

Sorry for the long (and mostly unrelated) tangent!

[joyofsoy](../profile/joyofsoy) replying to: [Do you like this design for keeping track of events and projects?](../notes/edie_blues/01-29-2019/do-you-like-this-design-for-keeping-track-of-events-and-projects)

