---
cid: 21826
node: [Dual bandpass filters](../notes/cfastie/11-24-2015/dual-band-pass-filters)
nid: 12442
created_at: 2019-02-02 03:57:06 +0000
timestamp: 1549079826
uid: 554
author: [cfastie](../profile/cfastie)
---

The primary advantage of dual band filters is that they pass much narrower bands of wavelengths than  red or blue filters (which also pass NIR). These narrower bands can make the NDVI results easier to interpret and can provide better information about plant stress. 

Good NDVI results with either type of filter require the same type of careful calibration or the kludge of an artificial custom white balance. They also require estimating the proportions of NIR and visible light which are mixed in one channel. They also require well exposed photos and proper post processing (e.g., applying color schemes). There is no guarantee that a dual band filter will provide better results than a colored filter. If you haven't been able to get good results with a good blue filter, a narrow band filter won't necessarily fix the problem.

Dual band pass filters introduce some new difficulties:

1. They are usually very expensive.
2. They don't work well when placed in front of the lens ([see this note](https://publiclab.org/notes/cfastie/12-03-2015/testing-midopt-filters)).
3. They are often thicker glass than the IR cut filter they replace inside the camera and with some cameras can make focussing a problem.
4. They do not pass very much light so exposure times must be longer.

If you can work with these issues, your results could improve.

Chris


[cfastie](../profile/cfastie) replying to: [Dual bandpass filters](../notes/cfastie/11-24-2015/dual-band-pass-filters)

