---
node: Question: What would you put in your Community Science Disaster Response Toolkit?
author: seankmcginnis
created_at: 2019-02-04 22:06:45 +0000
timestamp: 1549318005
nid: 18231
cid: 21837
uid: 552
---



[seankmcginnis](../profile/seankmcginnis) replying to: [Question: What would you put in your Community Science Disaster Response Toolkit?](../notes/Bronwen/01-31-2019/question-what-would-you-put-in-your-community-science-disaster-response-toolkit)

----
There are a number of technical services and data that are readily available, but the question for me is what questions we are looking to answer. As the group organizes, is it the goal to better understand what testing kits should be deployed to specific communities based on potential impacts that might be occurring? Another scenario might be around historically underserved communities and proactively send supplies that may not be deployed in a timely manner.

For the real time/near time data I think are a lot of sources of environmental information that can be brought in identifying the scope of event and potential populations impact. Some examples include:

* Real-time weather
* Stream/tidal gauges
* Surface water quality monitoring stations
* Traffic
* Rainfall forecasts/summaries
* Lightning strikes
* Inundation models/scenarios
* Weather alerts

There are a lot of publicly available datasets presented as static data, a few examples I discovered focused around the Galveston area include:

* Public Community Water Supplies (wells and surface water intakes)
* Watersheds
* Superfund Sites
* Dams
* Census/Population Information
* Current surface water quality
* Soils
* Historic groundwater contamination areas

Beyond these there are the traditional current and historic aerial imagery, topo maps, land use/land cover layers, and jurisdictional boundaries.

I am working to catalog a number of these into a single place and share for a possible future conversation. The questions I ask are:

* What are we trying to do?
* What data/information products are there that are good?
* What is there but not trusted and why?
* What is missing that we can provide tools to collect additional information in support of the community in a response?