---
node: Brainstorming for Summer of Code 2019
author: warren
created_at: 2019-02-08 18:20:34 +0000
timestamp: 1549650034
nid: 18047
cid: 21852
uid: 1
---



[warren](../profile/warren) replying to: [Brainstorming for Summer of Code 2019](../notes/warren/01-02-2019/brainstorming-for-summer-of-code-2019)

----
Hi, i wanted to share a few notes that I wrote in response to an inquiry about the React ideas:

We didn't include the React Native app in our ideas list because it's both not currently a top mission priority for us (although it may be in the future) and I think there are other steps we could take to prepare for it, such as expanding the read/write API, developing Notifications, etc. 

However, that's not to say we won't accept a proposal about it. Once all the proposals are submitted, we'll weigh a number of factors:

1. how many we think we can responsibly support
2. which are highest priority for the organization
3. which students seem most likely to succeed (both in completing their project and in building community around it)

and other factors as well! We do sometimes find that we are comfortable enough with a core set of projects and that we have an extra space we are willing to try something a little speculative with. But not always. So our ideas list is intended to help people choose projects that are most likely to be accepted. 

With this in mind, there are a few possible ways forward for people looking to do React-based work:

1. you could submit 2 proposals, one with React Native, and one that more closely aligns with our ideas list. (and, if you finish early, you could just do both :-P)
2. you could look at how some of the [MapKnitter UI projects](https://github.com/publiclab/mapknitter/issues/300) might be achievable in React, which could then be a component in a React Native app. For example, the Export UI or the Editor UI.


(2) has a few advantages; first, it focuses on a web-first interface which pushes our high priority MK project forward. Second, it involves developing code that would also serve in a RN app; dual purpose. Finally, it pushes forward a core project while demonstrating/prototyping the use of React and even React Native which helps us build confidence and familiarity with React, which could inform future plots2 React work. 

I hope this makes sense and seems fair!

Thanks so much for your interest and I look forward to your proposals! 