---
node: How to start air monitoring project?
author: shannonkmcalpine
created_at: 2019-02-13 23:17:51 +0000
timestamp: 1550099871
nid: 18242
cid: 21867
uid: 572747
---



[shannonkmcalpine](../profile/shannonkmcalpine) replying to: [How to start air monitoring project?](../notes/shannonkmcalpine/02-01-2019/how-to-start-air-monitoring-project)

----
 Thank you all for your comments and advice, we really appreciate it! Here is a little more information about our concerns, hopefully this will provide more background to you all!

We live in the neighboring cities of Gardena and Torrance in the South Bay where there is a large refinery and major freeways that are in close proximity to communities. After learning about harmful pollutants that are released as a result of diesel exhaust and through refinery practices, we were curious to see how the air quality in our cities measured up and if these levels could have harmful health effects on those in our communities. We’re interested in monitoring several sites near the Torrance Refinery and in Gardena, especially near the freeways. These locations can possibly include public spaces through soil samples, or residential air quality. 

We would like to focus on NO2 and PM, but we’re open to exploring other possible pollutants because we are unsure of what other pollutants may be worth monitoring. We were not aware of loT sensors, but is it something that you guys would recommend using? We were looking into Purple Air devices, but weren’t really sure what other technology would be useful.

One thing lacking from these monitors is data from Gardena. Additionally, in the arcgis map [@jeffalk](/profile/jeffalk) provided, our region’s monitors do not measure for NO2, which is something we are interested in measuring. 

We’re interested in taking up a community organizing project, but we would like to get a sense of if our air quality is harmful, and if so, then how severe. We would like to incorporate working with local schools or community organizations, but also for our own knowledge and understanding. 