---
cid: 21880
node: [Dual bandpass filters](../notes/cfastie/11-24-2015/dual-band-pass-filters)
nid: 12442
created_at: 2019-02-15 13:54:08 +0000
timestamp: 1550238848
uid: 554
author: [cfastie](../profile/cfastie)
---

 1. One photo every 50 shots might be sufficient. It depends on how much the light changes during that time (5 minutes?, an hour?, a day?). You might want the calibration targets in the  photo every time the light changes.
2. If you are using calibration targets and adjusting the values in each channel, then white balance is probably irrelevant. 
3. The ORF images (Olympus Raw Format) probably save white balance data which can be applied later if  desired. DNG image files (Digital Negative) also store white balance information which can be applied later. I don't know if your conversion from ORF to DNG will transfer the white balance information. MatLab can probably apply any white balance settings you want, so there is no need to set a custom white balance before you take the photos. More importantly, see number 2 above.
4. This is a very clever way to solve this problem. Make sure you capture raw image data and get it into MatLab without applying any white balance or gamma correction. All of the photos should be taken with the same exposure settings (shutter speed, aperture, ISO) which might be a challenge. The image with the R72 will tell you how much NIR is captured in the red channel. The IR cut filter (or narrow band red filter) will tell you how much red is captured in the red channel. You will then have an estimate of the proportion of Red:NIR captured in the red channel of your NDVI photos. 

Will this proportion be the same for photos of a calibration target as it will for photos of foliage? I don't know, but I bet you can figure out how to learn the answer. 

Let us know what you find for the NIR:Red proportion in the red channel. 

Chris

[cfastie](../profile/cfastie) replying to: [Dual bandpass filters](../notes/cfastie/11-24-2015/dual-band-pass-filters)

