---
cid: 21913
node: [Testing a Midopt DB660/850 filter: NIR contamination of the red channel](../notes/Corymbia/02-19-2019/testing-a-midopt-db660-850-filter-nir-contamination-of-the-red-channel)
nid: 18394
created_at: 2019-02-19 20:43:37 +0000
timestamp: 1550609017
uid: 572650
author: [Corymbia](../profile/Corymbia)
---

 Hi Ned,
Thanks for your comment, it was mainly your notes that inspired my camera conversion :)

I (hope I) fixed the tables by inserting print screens of the tables. I'm still fighting with formatting the text, but I hope you can now see the tables - let me know if this isn't the case!

Regarding the DNG conversion, unfortunately I'm no expert in image processing or Matlab, so I simply followed Rob Sumner's advice from his Matlab RAW guide:

"For our purposes, we must do a slight configuration after downloading the DNG Converter. After opening Adobe DNG Converter, click on Change Preferences and in the window that opens, use the drop-down menu to create a Custom Compatibility. Make sure the ‘Uncompressed’ box is checked in this custom combatibility mode and the ‘Linear (demosaiced)’ box is unchecked."

The reason behind my new camera conversion and all the testing is a plant stress experiment my colleagues are running. It will go for about a month, in a glasshouse with partly transparent roof, meaning different light condition on each day. I was originally thinking to simply set the white balance on a red tile/card before each "run", then take a picture of my ceramic tiles (before and after shooting), take pictures of the plants and finish with another picture of my ceramic tiles. However, i'm thinking to include two or three ceramic tiles in each photo. Any recommendation on which ones to use? I'm thinking to use three with a very low, medium and high reflectance, plus perhaps the red one.

[Corymbia](../profile/Corymbia) replying to: [Testing a Midopt DB660/850 filter: NIR contamination of the red channel](../notes/Corymbia/02-19-2019/testing-a-midopt-db660-850-filter-nir-contamination-of-the-red-channel)

