---
node: Do you have resources on odor logs and odor reporting platforms? 
author: warren
created_at: 2019-03-04 18:35:18 +0000
timestamp: 1551724518
nid: 14632
cid: 22028
uid: 1
---



[warren](../profile/warren) replying to: [Do you have resources on odor logs and odor reporting platforms? ](../notes/gretchengehrke/07-07-2017/do-you-have-resources-on-odor-logs-and-odor-reporting-platforms)

----
> Odour pollution has been consistently ignored by Governments when considering their environmental policies. This is despite it being the second most common subject of public complaints across Europe.  Odour pollution is not just an unpleasant nuisance but also associated with headaches, stress and respiratory problems. Perhaps more worryingly odour is an indicator of larger environmental problems such as poor sanitation and excessive levels of chemical pollution.

> The lack of regulation from authorities around odour pollution is largely due to it being difficult to reliably measure and the potential solutions being costly to implement. In addition, industrial stakeholders rely on the issue of poor data and inadequate monitoring techniques to oppose any new initiatives to tackle the problems. Some efforts have been made to regulate odours throughout Europe, however in the absence of standardised levels, definitions and criteria, efforts are severely hampered.

> Mapping for Change is working with partners across Europe and beyond on the Decentralised Network for Odour Sensing, Empowerment and Sustainability (D-NOSES) project. D-NOSES will change the way in which odour pollution is currently addressed at all levels of government. The project will share expert scientific knowledge in odour detection and measurement with the public to build an evidence base. The results will inform future plans to reduce odour pollution, develop a standardised set of regulations and influence policy at a local, national and European level.

http://dnoses.eu/