---
cid: 22134
node: [GSoC proposal: LEL 2.0 and work on Leaflet-Blurred projects .](../notes/sagarpreet/03-09-2019/gsoc-proposal-lel-2-0-and-work-on-leaflet-blurred-projects)
nid: 18500
created_at: 2019-03-13 14:29:51 +0000
timestamp: 1552487391
uid: 1
author: [warren](../profile/warren)
---

 Hi, Sagarpreet, thank you! 

You've done some great work on various Leaflet libraries and I love it. For this proposal, I wanted to suggest that you place extra emphasis on a few things:

1. thinking about the architecture of the libraries to reduce redundancy, for example to make it relatively few lines to add new layers to LEL. See for example the [Image Sequencer contribution section](https://github.com/publiclab/image-sequencer/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md#contributing-modules) - could a lot of the layer setup be standardized and excerpted into a new layer adder submodule like `addLayer` or something? Things like that which make the libraries extensible and readable.
2. community building - i think there's a big potential for a library that accepts self-contained standard module contributions (like Image Sequencer's Modules) to build a community, because each contributor can focus on submitting one standard module, instead of having to worry about the whole system. Make sense? 
3. testing and bugfixing -- I think LEL in particular starts to need testing to remain reliable. This will also help to "protect" well-functioning systems against future bug introduction.
4. LEL especially has been a great proof of concept, and now needs some restructuring and formalization to reach it's full potential! https://github.com/publiclab/leaflet-environmental-layers/issues/134 covers some of this, and in particular, separation of UI code (like building and driving the checklist menu vs. other ways of displaying the layers) from the core functionality using standard functions and maybe an event/listener model
5. Maybe a JSON-based standard way to store the metadata for each layer? https://github.com/publiclab/image-sequencer/blob/main/src/modules/Rotate/info.json

Thank you!!!

[warren](../profile/warren) replying to: [GSoC proposal: LEL 2.0 and work on Leaflet-Blurred projects .](../notes/sagarpreet/03-09-2019/gsoc-proposal-lel-2-0-and-work-on-leaflet-blurred-projects)

