---
cid: 22144
node: [Questions about Plantower sensors from the University of Wisconsin - Eau Claire](../notes/OrionAllgaier/03-13-2019/questions-from-the-university-of-wisconsin-eau-claire)
nid: 18544
created_at: 2019-03-14 16:38:14 +0000
timestamp: 1552581494
uid: 451611
author: [jeffalk](../profile/jeffalk)
---

 Hi [@OrionAllgaier](/profile/OrionAllgaier),  It's great to be curious and I'm sorry I can't answer your questions. But I am also curious. To my mind if one is trying to produce a low cost and usable particulate monitor I would expect one to use reasonably accurate and inexpensive methods to calibrate the output and, also to my mind, the simplest way would be to co-locate with a federally accepted monitor and use the data to develop a relationship from counts, the output of my counter, to µg/m^3, the output of the more expensive monitor. This would seem to me to be easier and quicker than starting from scratch with some theory and assumptions about particle density,"Arizona Dust" eg, and average volume, etc. In fact in my correspondence with Purple Air, this is what they recommend for users of their monitors so that the user can develop a relationship that more accurately gives densities that relate to the particulate generally in the air in their geographic location, ie they advise relating the purple air output to an accepted regulation monitor output. (Which, of course, prompts one to wonder how many users actually go through this process!)  To my mind also, if one wants to use an inexpensive monitor in environmental health related research, this is the only way to develop confidence in the data gathered. And the only way to be able to include a reasonable variablilty, ie error, analysis. I'd be curious as to what you think about this.  Thanks.

[jeffalk](../profile/jeffalk) replying to: [Questions about Plantower sensors from the University of Wisconsin - Eau Claire](../notes/OrionAllgaier/03-13-2019/questions-from-the-university-of-wisconsin-eau-claire)

