---
node: GSoC proposal: Mapknitter ORB Descriptor (w/ auto-stitching, pattern training, and live video support) and LDI revamp (major UI enhancements)
author: rexagod
created_at: 2019-03-17 22:53:22 +0000
timestamp: 1552863202
nid: 18515
cid: 22195
uid: 564358
---



[rexagod](../profile/rexagod) replying to: [GSoC proposal: Mapknitter ORB Descriptor (w/ auto-stitching, pattern training, and live video support) and LDI revamp (major UI enhancements)](../notes/rexagod/03-11-2019/gsoc-proposal-mapknitter-orb-descriptor-w-auto-stitching-pattern-training-and-live-video-support-and-ldi-revamp-major-ui-enhancements)

----
 Hey [@bansal_sidharth2996](/profile/bansal_sidharth2996)! Thank you so much for responding to my proposal. I will surely see to it that these suggestions are followed in the future just as I've done them in the past.

> Please take out a day from timeline from each month at end of each phase of SoC fellowship to write about what you learnt and did in the period. Earlier it was not compulsory. But let's make it compulsory. By this mentors will be able to access your progress.

Had this in mind for a while (I've been delaying the idea of having a blog for some time now and this would be a great start! ğŸ˜ƒ ). I'm currently considering between a more "exposed" blogging system like Medium or something a bit more "abstract" like Dan's [overreacted.io](https://overreacted.io/), or maybe I should stick to publishing my monthly progress directly to publiclab.org? What do you think?

> Don't forget to mention the ftos which you created during this period. Also mention the PR reviews which you did.

A bit unsure about what period (the current or the SoC one) are you referencing to, and do I mention this in my monthly SoC post or my proposal?  My FTOs and PRs (w/ reviews) till now are listed in the "Contributions" section above. Also, as far as the SoC period is corcerned, as is mentioned above, I'll absolutely continue to open up interesting FTOs and invite new comers to PL projects as much as possible!

> We are planning for video calls I'm each month during SoC program. So, it will be great to see you all. It will be great if you can review each others proposals and give some suggestions.

Looking forward to it! I'll check on other's proposals too and see if I can help them in any way possible!

> Also, it will be great if you want to (optional) to hold a conference at your university and explain Public Lab. What we do here? Programs and our workflow. This will be great help to public lab.

I'd definitely like to organize something like [this](https://publiclab.org/notes/bansal_sidharth2996/09-12-2018/soc-meetup-at-dtu) ASAP at my uni as well! As a matter of fact, I always wanted to do something like this from the very moment I read this post and the amazing response it generated. We do organize meetups and such, and other than that I'm a technical assistant at the forementioned tech societies so organizing something like this shouldn't be cumbersome at all.

> All participants all programs are encourage to write these in their proposals.

Write what out exactly? Sorry, but did I miss on including something in my proposal? I am unable to figure this out, can you please clarify?

Thanks again! Really appreciate it! ğŸ‘ 