---
cid: 22297
node: [What mechanical specs can and should PLab spectrometers meet?](../notes/stoft/09-15-2016/what-mechanical-specs-can-and-should-plab-spectrometers-meet)
nid: 13451
created_at: 2016-09-20 17:43:01 +0000
timestamp: 1474393381
uid: 54025
author: [stoft](../profile/stoft)
---

[@abdul](/profile/abdul), interesting observations .... so here's a starter list. [0] Folding Vers (Cute, zero-cost, spectrum concept), [1] Paper Vers (Functional, low-cost, spectral data but unstable), [2] Wood Vers (Functional, stable, middle-school science data, more repeatable). Then, [3] Optics-stable Vers (Better stability, first device with some specs), [4] Tools Vers (Stable, collectable data, integral cuvette, at least one environmental app), [5] Measurement Vers (FIrst real spectrometer with specs and applications), [6] 'High-End' Vers (Monochrome sensor, specs, apps, data analysis).

It is interesting that sales number are linked to customer perception. Do you have significant actual customer feedback statistics, or is it just high sales equals customer is pleased? It is just very easy to assume cause-effect associations which "seem right" but may not have hard data to back them up. ( See, science seems to sneak in just about everywhere ...;-) )

Are you suggesting that adding a bit of wood and removing some paper and velcro is going to make the customs or shipping costs prohibitive for overseas sales?

If a design using any wood becomes cost-prohibitive for a market, then that suggests a clear segmentation of that market. If so, then improvement ideas for that lower-cost market must have paper and glue as a limit -- a separate challenge not yet tackled. It might be possible to exchange higher labor 'cost' at the buyer's end for lower material / shipping / customs cost.

Does a product marketing plan for a suite of PLab spectrometer products exist? Maybe in draft form? With defined market segments, application, performance, materials, specs, costs, etc.....?


[stoft](../profile/stoft) replying to: [What mechanical specs can and should PLab spectrometers meet?](../notes/stoft/09-15-2016/what-mechanical-specs-can-and-should-plab-spectrometers-meet)

