---
cid: 22299
node: [What mechanical specs can and should PLab spectrometers meet?](../notes/stoft/09-15-2016/what-mechanical-specs-can-and-should-plab-spectrometers-meet)
nid: 13451
created_at: 2016-09-20 19:53:57 +0000
timestamp: 1474401237
uid: 54025
author: [stoft](../profile/stoft)
---

[@abdul](/profile/abdul), ok so we've just differentiated the [1] and [2] kits; the option [1] should ship thin, paper only with no 'solid' materials other than the 'thin' camera. How about glue? Maybe a thin, heat-sealed plastic packet? I'm thinking that there are structural ways to increase rigidity and stability (better than velcro but not as good as wood) if construction paper board can be glued by the buyer. As I wrote before, add more stability as a feature by exchanging build time for avoiding velcro and wood.

The idea here is that 1) you don't have any real feedback on how buyers react to the kits, 2) I did not hear that there were large numbers of repeat buyers, so I'll assume most are first-time buyers and maybe mostly just the curious. Since the potential market is huge (world-wide) you could keep selling kits, which buyers totally dislike, and never know -- because kits still sell. So, the only other piece you have is the knowledge that the kits do not perform as well as what an inexperienced user likely expects. Yes, this too is an assumption, but it is a much 'safer' assumption in terms of 'product quality' than assuming buyers are thrilled to bits. In addition, if you assume that 50% of buyers are happy and send links to their friends, it is also still best to show the product is improving -- than to leave them guessing if the design is 'getting old'.

So, I'm just suggesting to use the lesson learned about stability (and the wood proto) to evolve the Option [1] as well as producing an new Option [2]. [ Aside: I'm also suggesting that things like velcro are just inherantly not a good idea for an optical device and anyone who buys the [1] kit, and knows something about spectrometers, will definitely spot this design flaw. So, I'm suggesting you 'ditch' the velcro asap, in favor of alternate paper-based improvements. ]


[stoft](../profile/stoft) replying to: [What mechanical specs can and should PLab spectrometers meet?](../notes/stoft/09-15-2016/what-mechanical-specs-can-and-should-plab-spectrometers-meet)

