---
node: What mechanical specs can and should PLab spectrometers meet?
author: abdul
created_at: 2016-09-20 16:38:07 +0000
timestamp: 1474389487
nid: 13451
cid: 22296
uid: 479194
---



[abdul](../profile/abdul) replying to: [What mechanical specs can and should PLab spectrometers meet?](../notes/stoft/09-15-2016/what-mechanical-specs-can-and-should-plab-spectrometers-meet)

----
I think that the foldable smartphone spectrometer's huge sales provides evidence that there is robust demand for level 0 spectrometers and that they can and do serve educational purposes.

I think what we need to start coming to terms with is that different spectrometers will have different demographics it targets. 

We can continue to sell the DSK as a standard neutral option since people already like it as it already stands.

We can offer a slightly cheaper slightly less reliable (or equally reliable -- unknown until testing) one without wood that saves people **huge amounts of money on customs and shipping right away**. By huge amounts of money I mean **between 100% and 200% of what they pay for the spectrometer** .

We can offer a third option that endeavors to achieve reproducible results adequate for scientific usages.

What I want everyone to remember during these discussions is that we already have products in the store and they are already extremely, extremely popular. We sold over 50 desktop spectrometers and around 125 foldable spectrometers last week alone. 

The third option does not need to have retail cost as such a major consideration, but on the others retail cost is the **paramount** consideration, since they do not purport (as of right now) to produce any scientifically reproducible results. 

For the third option, being defined as a spectrometer that can produce reproducible results, we can focus on issues like rigidity, light sources, and can decide between camera models. But the other options already exist and they're already in high demand.