---
node: What mechanical specs can and should PLab spectrometers meet?
author: abdul
created_at: 2016-09-20 18:17:41 +0000
timestamp: 1474395461
nid: 13451
cid: 22298
uid: 479194
---



[abdul](../profile/abdul) replying to: [What mechanical specs can and should PLab spectrometers meet?](../notes/stoft/09-15-2016/what-mechanical-specs-can-and-should-plab-spectrometers-meet)

----
Excellent stuff there [@stoft](/profile/stoft) youre definitely picking up what Im throwing down.

So, regarding customer feedback unfortunately weve been prohibited from getting that information by an evaluation, something that as you can imagine causes a loooot of widespread issues when making informed decisions.

But! Beyond that, I'll explain the customs thing.

Items shipped in envelopes as "documents" do not get charged customs fees anywhere on Earth. Your first thought is probably that a spectrometer is not a document, but postal services use a definition of document based only on **rigidity**. So, removing the wood from the current DSK leaves us with nothing large enough and rigid enough to prevent the item being shipped as a document, thus reducing shipping fees to letter rates (1/10th of parcel rates) and exempting them from all customs charges. 

Now, keep in mind that many people, many many people, currently pay the 22.50 for international shipping plus their local customs fees (up to 69.50 additional depending on their country.

This is why I am recommending segmentation hust like youve described. A rigid spectrometer, whether it uses wood or metal or whatever else, necessitates those higher fees. A non rigid one, while not really accurate, does not.

I would absolutely love to have better customer data beyond simply the once a week complaint about customs fees I get, and hope to continue lobbying for permission to get that. But in the meantime I think segmenting the products is an intuitive way to go.