---
cid: 22318
node: [What are important aspects to consider about replication on the website and in the community?](../notes/liz/09-28-2016/what-are-important-aspects-to-consider-about-replication-on-the-website-and-in-the-community)
nid: 13500
created_at: 2016-10-01 02:41:08 +0000
timestamp: 1475289668
uid: 554
author: [cfastie](../profile/cfastie)
---

Replication (reproducibility) in scientific studies has become a topic of conversation because:

1. Recent investigations suggest that few researchers ever try to replicate studies (reproduce the results) and when they do they often fail to get the same result. Most of the publicized examples of this type of failure are in the pharmaceutical and medical fields (where this outcome should concern us).
2. Sociologists noticed that published papers sometimes fail to include enough information to allow others to replicate a study (reproduce the study’s results). In one famous case, new researchers had to work closely with the original team to get the same result. For some reason, sociologists thought this was important.

The type of studies referred to above generally involve experiments. Precise measurements were made in carefully manipulated environments where many variables were controlled so that they could not confuse the outcome.  It should be possible to replicate these studies (reproduce the results) – otherwise the results of the original experiment must be questioned. This is a key component of scientific research.

If you are not doing an experiment, this type of replication (reproducibility) might not be an important part of the process. If the other categories of Public Lab activities are being done (Build, Verify, Observations, Test tool limits, Field test, Monitor your environment) it will be good to see that someone else can do something similar, but the concept of reproducibility might not be applicable. There generally will not be any singular result to reproduce. 

There will be exceptions when the original activity specifies a controlled environment, a carefully thought out procedure, and multiple trials including controls, in which case that activity was indeed an experiment. Attempts could be made to reproduce the results of that type of activity, but this might be a very rare situation in Public Lab activities. 

In most Public Lab activities, the goal is far less specific: Does the kite fly well? Does your spectrum look like mine? Do the colors in my NDVI image look meaningful? Did the device log data every five minutes? Repeating this type of activity is a repetition, not a replication, and the sociological conversation about reproducibility does not really apply.

It will be good to have a record of multiple people building a certain spectrometer, or doing a careful job calibrating a spectrometer, or getting meaningful NDVI images from an infrared camera, or making a circuit respond to external stimuli. Calling these activities replications might confuse people about why reproducibility is critical in scientific research. Grasping the conceptual importance of reproducibility will come in handy when you finally get down to doing an experiment to see if your technique can identify environmental contamination. If nobody else can reproduce your results, your technique will not be useful.

When the scope of activities includes things that are experiments and also things that are not experiments, reserve the word experiment for the experiments. When the scope of activities includes reproducible experiments but also other things that are just attempts to repeat a procedure, don’t call the repeats replications. This is not just semantics; it is essential if your goal is to help people understand concepts they might not be familiar with. 

The conceptual differences among replication, reproducibility, and repeating a procedure are not trivial. It does not help that the term replication is used two ways – it is a common term for the use of multiple samples or trials in an experiment, and is also used to refer to the reproducibility of an experiment’s results. These three concepts are distinct, and all are important concepts to grasp as you design, implement, and present scientific research. Those familiar with research might be less likely to take your results seriously if these concepts are confused.

Chris


[cfastie](../profile/cfastie) replying to: [What are important aspects to consider about replication on the website and in the community?](../notes/liz/09-28-2016/what-are-important-aspects-to-consider-about-replication-on-the-website-and-in-the-community)

