---
node: What are important aspects to consider about replication on the website and in the community?
author: philipsilva
created_at: 2016-09-30 12:37:40 +0000
timestamp: 1475239060
nid: 13500
cid: 22316
uid: 43987
---



[philipsilva](../profile/philipsilva) replying to: [What are important aspects to consider about replication on the website and in the community?](../notes/liz/09-28-2016/what-are-important-aspects-to-consider-about-replication-on-the-website-and-in-the-community)

----
Some stray thoughts copied and pasted from an email exchange with Liz: 

Theorizing replication is a cottage industry within STS. Collins deals with it in terms of reconstructing the TEA Laser in Changing Order. I think that's the most relevant case for Public Lab, because it deals with replicating the assembly of a piece of technical lab equipment (rather than replicating research results). He also deals with replication as a sort of red herring in his introductory chapters. Everyone talks about it, no one ever actually does it for most studies. And what does it mean to replicate? You can never perfectly replicate a study. The beakers were a little different. The lab was the wrong temperature. The moon was in the seventh house instead of the sixth and Jupiter had yet to align with Mars. And so the results are off. But are they off because the original results were invalid or because the replicator failed to sufficiently create 1:1 conditions for the second test? Who can say? Not the experiment itself. And so we get what Harry Collins calls "the experimenter's regress." When there's controversy over findings in this way, at some point there are social dynamics that take over from experimental protocols to end the infinite regress. 

So, not only is replication rarely ever actually used as a litmus test for good science (why twould I spend all that time and money trying to perform the same operations you're describing in your journal article? What glory is in it for me? And who's going to pay for it!?), but when replication results in controversy, the regress sets in. 

Then there's a whole history of the construction of replication as a standard in science, which Steven Shapin focuses on in much of his work (beginning with The Leviathan and the Air Pump). 

Once I read Collins' treatment of replication I kind of stopped paying attention to the topic. Sort of an intellectual dead end if you buy into the concept of the experimenter's regress. Worth noting all the psychological studies that have recently been "debunked" after failures to replicate the same findings. Like... duh, right? If you can use minor variations in highly controllable experiments in the biophysical sciences to ignite the experimenter's regress, then the near infinity of uncontrollable variables in human behavior make it really easy to claim that later researchers just failed to adequately duplicate the conditions of the first study. As if we could clone and copy the psyches of the people in those first studies to use them again for replication. 

Or, yeah, the studies were just bad science to begin with. But that's a different story. 



