---
cid: 22321
node: [What are important aspects to consider about replication on the website and in the community?](../notes/liz/09-28-2016/what-are-important-aspects-to-consider-about-replication-on-the-website-and-in-the-community)
nid: 13500
created_at: 2016-10-04 23:34:56 +0000
timestamp: 1475624096
uid: 554
author: [cfastie](../profile/cfastie)
---

###Is replication the same as reproducing the result of an experiment?

The answer to this question is messy because the term replication is used to refer both to experimental replicates and to replicate experiments. An experimental replicate is a unit of study (e.g., one of five random study plots) and a replicate experiment is when an entire study is repeated to see if the same result is achieved. 

But there are two different types of “replicate” experiments. The obvious one is when every detail of the original experiment is repeated. For several very good reasons, this almost never happens. The only thing you can learn from this is whether the original experiment might have been flawed in some way. When research has been peer reviewed, we assume it is not very flawed, so repeating the exact same experiment rarely tells us anything worthwhile. (The assumption that peer reviewed research is robust apparently does not apply to some fields of research.)

The more common response to earlier research is to do a similar study designed to apply a different test of the greater question at hand. So a new study can be done with some important variables changed. It can be done with a different organism, or at a different place, or at a different time of year. A different technique can be used to measure the important thing in the study, or a different but related thing can be measured. The goal is not to search for flaws, but to see if the results of the new study are consistent with the results of the original study. 

For example, consider a study that tested the hypothesis that precipitation events carry nutrients from fertilized fields down the watershed toward streams. Three streams downhill from fertilized fields were sampled every two hours for nitrogen in the water, and precipitation events were recorded. The result was that nitrogen in the water increased significantly two hours after big rain events compared to two hours before rain events. This is consistent with the stated hypothesis that precipitation caused the movement of nutrients from fields toward streams.

Replicating this study just requires copying everything that was done the first time. But reproducing the original result (confirming the hypothesis) can be done with many different studies. For example, phosphorus could be measured instead of nitrogen. Water could be sampled while it is running across the ground instead of after it enters the stream. Isotopically labeled nitrogen can be added to the fields to see if those very molecules can be detected in the streams. Shallow ground water can be extracted from soil in transects from the fields down to the streams and analyzed for nutrients. The study can be repeated in spring instead of fall, or after bigger rain events or after snow melt events. The nutrient content of streamside plants could be measured near streams downhill from fertilized fields and also near streams far from fields.

Unlike the simple approach of repeating the original study, these studies can add important new information while also reproducing the results (confirming the hypothesis) of the original study. These new studies can strengthen our confidence that nutrients (do or don't) move from field to stream, and do so far more effectively than just repeating what the first researcher did. This is what usually happens in science.

This is why the idea of “replicating” a study needs clarification. The more important goal is to “reproduce the result” of a study, not just repeat the study. The term “reproducibility” can refer to this idea of confirming the big hypothesis with a strategically designed new study. That is the primary way that science advances, and the reason that in this context the term “replication” is misleading and should probably be avoided.

####Summary   
- *Replicating an experiment*: Repeating an experiment to see if an earlier implementation of it was flawed.  
- *Reproducing the results of an experiment*: Performing a similar or related experiment to test the hypothesis confirmed by an earlier experiment and increase our understanding of the study system.


[cfastie](../profile/cfastie) replying to: [What are important aspects to consider about replication on the website and in the community?](../notes/liz/09-28-2016/what-are-important-aspects-to-consider-about-replication-on-the-website-and-in-the-community)

