---
node: Are there affordable EPA-approved methods for monitoring ozone? 
author: 2x2l
created_at: 2017-02-26 16:33:17 +0000
timestamp: 1488126797
nid: 13954
cid: 22433
uid: 503394
---



[2x2l](../profile/2x2l) replying to: [Are there affordable EPA-approved methods for monitoring ozone? ](../notes/mathew/02-23-2017/are-there-affordable-epa-approved-methods-for-monitoring-ozone)

----
Here is an archive of the document you are looking for. (Hoping the file being down has nothing to do with the recent change of administration....)

http://web.archive.org/web/20170107170902/https://www3.epa.gov/ttnamti1/files/ambient/criteria/reference-equivalent-methods-list.pdf

Teledyne has been an industry stalwart since my grandfather was in medical school. Likewise Thermo-Scientific or any of their subsidiaries will also produce top-notch units. Ebay is a gold-mine for certain metrology instruments. I.e., an Agilent 33301a was an industry standard for ages- the 33361a replaced it and the price went into the 500-600 range from the 3k new range.

Note that in certain industries/contexts/applications (i.e., you want your data to be admissible to a court; you are designing under contract for the federal government; etc), devices usually require certificates of calibration ("NIST cals") every so often. Recognized companies will give you a certificate to go into your document repository, along with a tamper resistant sticker on the shell of the unit containing the serial number of the unit/cal date/etc. Vendors tend to charge extra for that little slip of paper. If you have a reputable NIST-approved authority who already does your cals, they'll almost certainly be cheaper. 

Best bang for buck if you need full NIST traceability - buy an industry 'tried and true' used, and get a third party cal. E.g. For that 33301a, you can get a 'cal sticker' from a recognized source for $200ish, and solve your compliance issues.