---
cid: 22444
node: [Good guides on doing a photo survey of a site?](../notes/warren/03-14-2017/good-guides-on-doing-a-photo-survey-of-a-site)
nid: 14017
created_at: 2017-03-14 22:12:46 +0000
timestamp: 1489529566
uid: 1
author: [warren](../profile/warren)
---

This doesn't offer guidance on the survey itself, but has a lot of information about taking an individual photo with good metadata, and a means to verify the photo as evidence:

https://guardianproject.github.io/informacam-guide/en/InformacamGuide.html

> **To Capture Photographic Evidence of an Incident**

> The InformaCam system, and specifically the CameraV app, is well suited for capturing photographic evidence of an incident of any nature. This could range from the aftermath of a car accident, to the damage of property during a natural disaster. It could also be used to document violence between citizens, or between police or military forces and citizens.

> The goal in any of these cases is to capture the state of some thing, at a specific point of time, and then share that media evidence with an authority that can use it for the application of justice or monetary compensation. In this case, the encrypted storage and verification features help prove that the evidence was not tampered with, and was captured at the time and place that matches the crime.

A secondary goal could be for advocacy and awareness. Using CameraV in this cases helps bolster your case, to provide proof to your broader public audience that what they are seeing is true, authentic and unmodified.

[warren](../profile/warren) replying to: [Good guides on doing a photo survey of a site?](../notes/warren/03-14-2017/good-guides-on-doing-a-photo-survey-of-a-site)

