---
node: What would be a good basic activity to test out a data logging device in water? 
author: cfastie
created_at: 2017-06-16 23:18:08 +0000
timestamp: 1497655088
nid: 14550
cid: 22492
uid: 554
---



[cfastie](../profile/cfastie) replying to: [What would be a good basic activity to test out a data logging device in water? ](../notes/stevie/06-16-2017/what-would-be-a-good-basic-activity-to-test-out-a-data-logging-device-in-water)

----
Stevie, it sounds like you are looking for demonstrations of things data loggers can do. That really depends on what logger(s) you have and what sensors you have. Most of the loggers at the new wiki (https://publiclab.org/wiki/data-logging) can do all sorts of environmental data logging with all sorts of sensors. For unattended outdoor logging you need a weatherproof (or waterproof) enclosure and a system that will operate long enough for your needs. Then you need a sensor (or multiple sensors) appropriate to your demonstration. 

Environmental data logging is not very exciting until you see the data. So the best demonstrations have radio feeds and the data is available live on the internet or some smaller network. Next best might be a portable display so some data can be seen as it is being saved (e.g., to SD card). Little LCD monitors cost just several dollars and turn a data logger into a data readout device (see this note: https://publiclab.org/notes/cfastie/05-03-2017/monitor-your-data-logger). 

Most data loggers save barebones data files (just numbers and commas) so you have to work out a system for transferring the data to a computer and parsing them so they can be interpreted. There are ways to have data graphed or mapped automatically, but usually some human intervention is needed to make the data accessible to your audience. The data file is not the end product -- summarizing and presenting the data often takes more skill than writing the Arduino sketches that make the loggers work.

All of the microcontroller based data loggers run on batteries, so they can become portable environmental probes. Especially if you have a little LCD monitor, you can walk around and reveal spatial patterns of environmental variables (see this note: https://publiclab.org/notes/cfastie/05-26-2017/portable-thermal-ir-temperature-logger-unit). Ideally, a moving data logger would have a GPS sensor so each data point saved also has location data (see this note: https://publiclab.org/notes/cfastie/04-17-2017/skypod-endurance-test). 

Many sensors are very inexpensive (<$10.00) and provide simple measurements (temperature, humidity, barometric pressure, brightness, noise level, movement, tilt angle, etc). Sometimes that is all you need, but often you have to adapt a simple sensor to tell you what you really want to know. For example, a tilt sensor in a float on a long arm can reveal changes in the level of the water the float is on. Or a noise sensor by a road can tell you how many cars drove past. 

It sounds like you are interested in sensing water. Most sensors are not waterproof, so some engineering might be required to use them in or near water. A few sensors are designed for submersion (e.g., [the DS18B20 temperature sensor](https://www.adafruit.com/product/381)). For long term deployment the data logger itself also has to be weatherproofed, so more engineering is called for. 

DIY data logging has been a popular field for many years and there is endless information about it. One of the big challenges of doing it is that it involves a little bit of programming, electronics, engineering, data wrangling, and patience. It's a rare data logging exercise that does not push my limits in two or three of those areas, which is why I included the last item in the list. Arduinos are finicky little scoundrels, so be prepared.

So yes, lots of activities can be dreamed up to demonstrate data logging. What's your budget, time frame, and objective (and tolerance for setbacks)?

Chris
