---
node: data loggers for PH ? 
author: cfastie
created_at: 2017-06-24 15:19:53 +0000
timestamp: 1498317593
nid: 14575
cid: 22499
uid: 554
---



[cfastie](../profile/cfastie) replying to: [data loggers for PH ? ](../notes/MadTinker/06-24-2017/data-loggers-for-ph)

----
That sounds like a wonderful "opportunity."  It is also a revealing test case for the suitability of DIY environmental loggers to serve their masters. 

There are pH meters designed to work with Arduinos. There are also turbidity sensors and conductivity sensors which might also be good for monitoring water quality. DFRobot [has all of them](https://www.dfrobot.com/category-68.html) for $10 to $70 apiece. These can all be connected to an Arduino based data logger. Unfortunately, none of these sensors is waterproof and rugged, so making a more or less permanent installation with the sensor in the water and the logger protected from the elements will be a serious engineering project. I think these are intended to be "laboratory" sensors and not field sensors. I don't know if there are inexpensive sensors for pH, conductivity, or turbidity which can be installed under water for long periods. This type of sensor probably requires regular maintenance and calibration in order for the results to be reliable.

Also, it is hard to know how much power these sensors require and how easy it is to "sleep" them to conserve power. So operating the logger on batteries for multiple weeks will require some research. Another obstacle to deploying any data logger in your creek is the engineering required to allow it to survive floods or even surges after local rain events. You might need a permanent structure like a bridge to attach everything to.

Although installing a device which continually logs useful water data in such an environment is tricky, it is really straightforward to carry the sensor device down to the creek every few days and collect data. The DFRobot sensors could be connected to any of the loggers [here](https://publiclab.org/wiki/data-logging) and inserted into the creek or a bucket full of creek water. You can devote as much effort as you see fit to keep the sensors calibrated. 

And you'll be down at the creek all the time anyway planting willow and cottonwood.

Chris

