---
cid: 22510
node: [Is it important to account for humidity using optical particulate matter monitors? ](../notes/stevie/06-30-2017/is-it-important-to-account-for-humidity-using-optical-particulate-matter-monitors)
nid: 14594
created_at: 2017-07-01 17:32:03 +0000
timestamp: 1498930323
uid: 451611
author: [jeffalk](../profile/jeffalk)
---

  Yes is the simple answer:  high humidity and/or moisture can effect particulate counts by raising them. Once you accept this the next step is how to decide if that is the case for a particular set of readings. An obvious thing to do is check the weather history around the relevant time period. Since most weather history will come from airports which are most likely not near to the monitoring device one has to work in generalities. If the weather shows potential for problems ( in addition to the data being unusually "high", distinctly different from before and after), label the relevant data as problematic and I would suggest you do not use it in your analysis and be sure and state that in your commentary.  There is no one size fits all adjustment that can be made, especially for the newer, cheaper sensors whether they record humidity or not. 
   As an aside, high moisture content will in general make it more difficult for particulate close to or on the ground to become or remain airborne. This is why it is a best practice for construction or mining outfits to hose down roadways, tires, and sand piles in exceedingly dry times. So in high humidity/moisture times a hefty rise in particulate matter without a conspicuous cause is questionable.
   I realize Stevie posted this as a question, but it is relevant to the plots air quality group also and I don't know how to get this reply to all the relevant groups. There was a recent post for help in the air quality group regarding the Dylos particulate monitor and a graph of some monitoring results was provided. There were many one hour average readings of over 300 µg/m^3 concentrations for pm2.5.  I replied with some weather data that definitely showed potential for problematic readings. But there are a few more questions pertinent to optical sensors that are important. Optical sensors count particles. They do not monitor concentrations. There needs to be some way to translate from a count to a concentration. The poster has not responded to a question about how he/she does this. The question is relevant even for those optical monitors that give an output in concentrations for somehow the manufacturer has had to come up with a method to translate. If this was done using some experimental apparatus a question exists about the range of known concentrations used for the calibration. In the above case if the range did not include concentrations over 300µg/m^3 then the graphed concentrations are questionable even without high humidity or moisture. 
   I'd welcome comments, questions, or disagreements.

[jeffalk](../profile/jeffalk) replying to: [Is it important to account for humidity using optical particulate matter monitors? ](../notes/stevie/06-30-2017/is-it-important-to-account-for-humidity-using-optical-particulate-matter-monitors)

