---
node: What are ways to record ambient temperature every 5 sec and export easily?
author: cfastie
created_at: 2017-07-13 21:50:27 +0000
timestamp: 1499982627
nid: 14650
cid: 22522
uid: 554
---



[cfastie](../profile/cfastie) replying to: [What are ways to record ambient temperature every 5 sec and export easily?](../notes/carohowe/07-13-2017/what-are-ways-to-record-ambient-temperature-every-5-sec-and-export-easily)

----
A data logger based on an Arduino microcontroller is well suited to the task of recording temperature every few seconds. The simplest Arduino combined with an SD card, clock, and sensor is all that is needed. This approach does not put the data onto a phone, but stores it on a microSD card that must be moved to a computer for transferring the data. 

This approach does not record the location of each temperature reading which might be important for your project. The exact time of each temperature reading is stored with the data, so that can be used to match up location data from another device. Or a GPS module can be added to the Arduino device so location coordinates are stored with each data point. 

Here are some kits available for doing these things. All save data to a microSD card. All run for several hours on four AAA or AA batteries. All work with exposed sensors which will respond quickly to changes in temperature. All can save 10,000 to 50,000 data points on a microSD card:

1. [ Nano Logger Kit](http://kaptery.com/product/nano-logger-kit): Snaps together in a few minutes and records time, temperature, and barometric pressure every few seconds. $29.00
2. [Mini Pearl Logger Kit](http://kaptery.com/product/mini-pearl-logger-kit): Must be soldered together (a few hours work). Needs an additional ($2.50) temperature sensor. Has the potential to run for weeks on batteries.  $19.00
3. [SkyPod Kit](http://kaptery.com/product/skypod-kit): Records time, temperature, pressure, and GPS coordinates (lat, lon, alt) every few seconds. Must be soldered together (a few hours work). $44.00

It is also easy to buy the individual components to combine into similar devices.

There are also some products which work with a phone to collect temperature data. The following are two of many:  
[Thermodo](http://thermodo.com/)  
[Temp Stick](http://idealsciences.com/?gclid=Cj0KCQjwtJzLBRC7ARIsAGMkOAlBWiBYkr2s6ojfR_An6r4ZzAXXUR36_fPKCi8olpygNtKLnW6HI08aAvxaEALw_wcB)  


Chris