---
cid: 22529
node: [Do you have resources on odor logs and odor reporting platforms? ](../notes/gretchengehrke/07-07-2017/do-you-have-resources-on-odor-logs-and-odor-reporting-platforms)
nid: 14632
created_at: 2017-07-14 19:51:29 +0000
timestamp: 1500061889
uid: 503419
author: [ottinger](../profile/ottinger)
---

My lab at Drexel University, the [Fair Tech Collective](http://www.fairtechcollective.org), has also been working on a brand-new platform, [Air Watch Bay Area](http://airwatchbayarea.org), with refinery neighbors in Northern California.  Our platform actually has (1) a reporting component and (2) a data exploration component: it enables community members to look at historical, real-time air monitoring data collected at refinery fencelines.  Reports appear alongside the data, showing not only where they are on a map but also when they happened in relation to measured levels of chemicals.  Smell reporting is based on SmellPGH but also includes the ability to upload pictures, which form a kind of photo blog on a separate page.  That was inspired by Ushahidi/iWitness/IVAN, but uses different code to make it more flexible with respect to the presentation of the images.

Importantly, reporting to our platform can be done via an app or via a website: we found that our potential users (many of them older people) were not uniformly comfortable with apps. 

Our platform is all open source.  Sufyan, one of the talented developers who have made it happen, will post with more details.  

We have been in the development phase for the last year and a half and are only just feeling ready for prime time.  We’re hoping usage will pick up over the coming months.  We can post updates here, if there’s interest.  In the meanwhile, we welcome feedback, adopters, and contributors!


[ottinger](../profile/ottinger) replying to: [Do you have resources on odor logs and odor reporting platforms? ](../notes/gretchengehrke/07-07-2017/do-you-have-resources-on-odor-logs-and-odor-reporting-platforms)

