---
cid: 22603
node: [What type of health issues are associated with inhalation of ultrafine particles?](../notes/liz/08-04-2017/what-type-of-health-issues-are-associated-with-inhalation-of-ultrafine-particles)
nid: 14718
created_at: 2017-09-14 17:43:05 +0000
timestamp: 1505410985
uid: 451398
author: [sarasage](../profile/sarasage)
---

One of the most difficult advocacy projects is obtaining wholesale health-related information from a community. For good reason, people protect their privacy on health-related matters. In order to obtain a large enough sample and gather meaningful information for a survey, you need to ask questions regarding pre-existing conditions, age, years lived at residence, occupation,  reproductive health questions - it is really sensitive stuff. Then there is linking environmental data to health-related complaints. It makes a lot of sense that cases tort cases are handled by attorneys who can assure the community of privacy via attorney/client privilege.

In my community, we have used informal and confidential surveys (partially prepared with advice from a volunteer professional), door-to-door canvassing -- which requires a lot of one-on-one time, sitting down with the neighbor, going through the questions one at a time, if they are willing. To some effect, they have been useful and we have submitted the pie charts, etc. to planning officials, as well as including the data in a civil rights complaint. So, their community should definitely try to obtain as much data as possible, knocking on doors, etc.

Fine particulates are not good for your health, obviously. The main issue in my community is issues with breathing, asthma - also, studies show that the risk of breast and lung cancer is elevated when people inhale fine particulates.

My advice would be to try to gather as much environmental information as possible, finding low-cost methods, sampling on worst-case scenario days for starters - checking wind speed and direction since fine particulate levels change drastically depending on those factors.

[sarasage](../profile/sarasage) replying to: [What type of health issues are associated with inhalation of ultrafine particles?](../notes/liz/08-04-2017/what-type-of-health-issues-are-associated-with-inhalation-of-ultrafine-particles)

