---
node: What are examples of citizen science projects that have tested water for pH?
author: gilbert
created_at: 2017-09-22 20:01:05 +0000
timestamp: 1506110465
nid: 14942
cid: 22630
uid: 508551
---



[gilbert](../profile/gilbert) replying to: [What are examples of citizen science projects that have tested water for pH?](../notes/liz/09-22-2017/what-are-examples-of-citizen-science-projects-that-have-tested-water-for-ph)

----
One final example: (4)  Citizen Science Water Quality Mapping - Kansas State University- A Natural Science & Environmental Monitoring Capstone Project: Advised by:
Shawn Hutchinson, PhD. Associate Professor of Geography
18 December 2013
 "The purpose of this project was to build a public participation digital mapping for use by citizens
to monitor and record water quality in their area, as a part of a Citizen Science initiative. Citizen
Science is the gathering and testing of data prepared by non-professionals. For this project, water
quality was tested throughout different points in, or near, Manhattan, KS. Pollutant levels and
water properties including nitrate, phosphate, turbidity, dissolved oxygen, conductivity, and pH
were measured to characterize overall water quality. Geographic information system (GIS)
software was used to map and analyze the data. An Adobe Flex-based Web mapping application
was created using Internet map and geoprocessing services developed for the project. Interested
users can access the data, in map form, perform additional tasks using an Internet browser. Results
from analysis of the water quality data and contributing watershed characteristics revealed several
interesting relationships. Developed land decreased the turbidity, whereas, all other land types
increased turbidity. For other pollutants, as the total area of developed land increased, there was
a decrease in pollutants. This decreasing trend ran counter to the initial assumption that developed
land would be a source of pollutants. However, preliminary results showed that landcover types
such as grasslands, agriculture land, and forests contributed more to pollution loads. These results
were derived from only a small number of data points (n = 19) collected over a short time frame
(approximately 2 months). Collecting additional sample data over a longer time period will
improve the assessment of Manhattan’s water quality." Submitted by:
Grant Brady Biological Systems Engineering
Brett Wilkinson Biological Systems Engineering
Adam Bennett Park Management & Conservation
Katie Rohling Agricultural Communication & Journalism
Kyle Stropes Agronomy
Tyler Vollick Geography