---
node: Need your feedback on Tag pages
author: warren
created_at: 2017-11-15 17:19:07 +0000
timestamp: 1510766347
nid: 15072
cid: 22723
uid: 1
---



[warren](../profile/warren) replying to: [Need your feedback on Tag pages](../notes/tommystyles/10-20-2017/need-your-feedback-on-tag-pages)

----
Via [@liz](/profile/liz) [note here](https://github.com/publiclab/plots2/issues/1502#issuecomment-344621402):

> Let's go back to basics on this issue :)

> What is the goal of visualizing tags?

> For me, visualizing tags is a way to visually depict associated tags, e.g. tags that appear together on the same content. For great example, see the color-coded clusters in [@skilfullycurled](/profile/skilfullycurled) 's visualization above. Clustering tags are important because they visually connect the website's presentation of community activity closer to what the Public Lab community culturally refers to as "research areas", or perhaps "topics" --> this is my actual goal with this entire issue.

> Here's some background information: on our tags page (https://publiclab.org/tags) we write "We use tags to group research by topic" and encourage people to browse tags (currently only sorted by recent activity). This is an important way that we name, link to, and/or promote people to find and engage with topics. The Dashboard itself emphasizes recent activity. The Dashboard now features a "recently used tags" bar -- which is an important but partial step to the goal of seeing "research areas" or "topics".

> To move forward, I am not interested in navigating by a graphic tag visualization (so 2007!), however, the clusters of activity provide an important additional way of connecting/navigating to topics. To achieve the goal, by which i mean the ability for the tags page to show which are the most interconnected tags, to communicate the breadth of connected topics in a research area, to navigate/connect to a research area, and to subscribe appropriately we do not necessarily need color-coded swooping arrows. Let's think about how to achieve these goals.

> We might also consider mirroring publiclab.org/tags at publiclab.org/topics to make the language more accessible.