---
node: Are there accepted definitions of accuracy and precision within Public Lab? 
author: cfastie
created_at: 2017-12-09 03:11:11 +0000
timestamp: 1512789071
nid: 15336
cid: 22796
uid: 554
---



[cfastie](../profile/cfastie) replying to: [Are there accepted definitions of accuracy and precision within Public Lab? ](../notes/MadTinker/12-08-2017/are-there-accepted-definitions-of-accuracy-and-precision-within-public-lab)

----
I don't think there is any debate about what those words mean, but I find it hard to use them correctly all the time. The only sensors I have used with data loggers are very cheap and probably not very accurate or precise. A $1.00 temperature sensor is not designed to report a temperature that is closer than about one or two degrees from the actual temperature, but that is good enough accuracy for everything I have used them for. I am much more impressed by DIY data loggers because of their potential to be incredibly inexpensive and adaptable than by their potential to be highly accurate. For my projects I can work around poor accuracy, but if the parts are expensive I would have to get a job.

Concern about the precision of sensors is probably related to the problem of drift--whether the accuracy of the sensor changes through time. A lot of these little electronic sensors seem to drift as temperature changes. That might be okay for your project, but it's important to be aware of it. 

I was really impressed that the [MMA8451 accelerometer could measure the length of a bayonet](https://publiclab.org/notes/cfastie/12-09-2017/will-an-arduino-measure-water-depth) on two different days to within about 7 mm with no apparent difference in accuracy between the two days. But acceptable accuracy depends strongly on the goals of the project. I guess there is no universal guideline for either accuracy or precision.

Chris