---
node: What is my potential all over the place?
author: JSummers
created_at: 2018-01-11 13:28:40 +0000
timestamp: 1515677320
nid: 15410
cid: 22841
uid: 304279
---



[JSummers](../profile/JSummers) replying to: [What is my potential all over the place?](../notes/Greg_H/12-21-2017/what-is-my-potential-all-over-the-place)

----
Hi [@Greg_H](/profile/Greg_H),
I am sorry that you are still having trouble with your WheeStat.  
While it is possible that it is a software problem, it seems more likely that the hardware is at issue.  One thing that happens with some frequency is that the solder connection to one of the alligator clips comes loose.  Before you do anything else, I would check this by measuring the resistance between each of the alligator clips and the connection on the circuit board.  Even if it seems OK, I recommend re-melting the solder to each of the clips and re-running the experiment.
There are two kinds of software used, the GUI software and the microcontroller firmware.  The GUI software is the same for the two versions of the WheeStat that are avialable.  The microcontroller should have been flashed with the correct software before it was sent to you.  You should have a usb drive with the source code on it.  The firmware for the 5 series instrument is called WheeStat6_c or WheeStat6_d (the latter is the more recent).  To re-flash the firmware, download Energia from energia.nu and open the WheeStat6 file in Energia.  You will need to create a folder called "libraries" in your Energia sketchbook folder and put the "altSPI" folder in there.  From the Energia IDE, go to Tools>Boards and open the boards manager window.  You will need to select the Tiva C board from the list.  
Once you have done this, you should be able to load the software onto the microcontroller by clicking on the play button on the upper left of the IDE.
Let me know what happens with re-soldering the leads.  If you decide to re-flash the microcontroller, let me know if you get stuck and I will help you out.
Jack