---
cid: 22869
node: [How do we do user interface design work in a community process?](../notes/warren/01-22-2018/how-do-we-do-user-interface-design-work-in-a-community-process)
nid: 15587
created_at: 2018-01-22 23:48:00 +0000
timestamp: 1516664880
uid: 1
author: [warren](../profile/warren)
---

Our discussion covered a lot of topics! [@liz](/profile/liz) [@stevie](/profile/stevie) this is great stuff for planning out how we'll engage design contributions. 


**Tommy**

How do we do this on design? It's hard to do without the big view. Cohesion, unified. 

Not a design czar. Small design committee, to own the cohesion goal? 

Style guide. Principles for smaller design conventions.

vs. clean sheet design of a large feature

When to say "let's start over with some sketches!"

What's set in stone. What's out of scope?

The need for context! 


**Craig**

Lots of context needed! It takes time getting ppl caught up if they're new to the site!

Coders don't need the "onboarding" context as much -- not as existential.

What's the raw data to work with? Eval team reports? Interviews or user studies to browse through?

What's the Wikipedia article about Public Lab?

We're not trying to revisit the fundamental tenets -- but here are areas where we need work! This is what's up for grabs.

A process: "when we do design, we'd like to see artifacts A B and C -- a workflow convention.


**Tommy**

Cool to have a place where you provide the starting ingredients for a designer. 

LUMA technique about stakeholder mapping -- where could a designer dig into existing information like this?

Recurring design challenges/questions... 

What are "old interfaces"? 

Relate to yearly survey process!

Either 20 people have added stuff to this page, and not coordinated OR this was never designed... HELP

A "toolbox" of design modules


"Design modules" idea -- widgets to display groups of people, maps, graphs, design elements that recur a lot. A design vocabulary rather than page-based designs. 

- maps module
- people module
- "pulse" module


**Craig**

Engage a group of people to reflect on and respond to a design on a cycle. 

A way to do a quick feedback cycle on a design idea. 

Feedback on style conventions too -- colors, styles, fonts. The "look".


**Tommy**

A list of design conventions across the site


(**Jeff:** https://publiclab.org/wiki/glossary)

This should be part of the style guide!


**Jeff**

Quick iteration reviews of design work -- a mini design review workflow



[warren](../profile/warren) replying to: [How do we do user interface design work in a community process?](../notes/warren/01-22-2018/how-do-we-do-user-interface-design-work-in-a-community-process)

