---
cid: 22870
node: [Cheap, lightweight GoPro alternatives for aerial mapping?](../notes/warren/05-20-2017/cheap-lightweight-gopro-alternatives-for-aerial-mapping)
nid: 14219
created_at: 2018-01-23 15:02:42 +0000
timestamp: 1516719762
uid: 1
author: [warren](../profile/warren)
---

Just noting that [@csik](/profile/csik) has had trouble with some of these types of cameras recently:

> I chocked it up to not being familiar with the cameras but found it odd that when we took them down they always seemed to be off.

> After trying to get to know them a bit better, it seems they are just really flaky. Even with a full charge they seem to turn off all the time, and one is now stuck in permanent startup screen... the surfer's longest ride. It's getting a bit rough as a couple of times now we've done major sessions with people only to have nothing to show. So I wanted to ask:

> 1) has anyone successfully done a firmware upgrade or such to improve the performance? 
> 2) has anyone brought a frozen camera back to life? We've tried all permutations/combinations of memcard, battery, powered on with different buttons, etc.
> We can't really risk any more failed sessions, so I'm probably heading out to some camera stores now. 
> 3) are there any models / families you'd recommend?

> That's it really, except I'd be hesitant to recommend these to anyone. Neither worked well and one pretty much died after a single flight. Not complaining, just looking for help and wondering if you have recommendations. 

> I checked a clone or similar on amazon and it looks like 25% give one star because of bricking.

> Good news though. I stuck the memory card in my laptop and one of the sessions was fully documented. The camera stopped recording before we brought the kite down, so it was off when it arrived, and none of the photos showed up. Which correlates with what we noticed previously, that it really only works on a full charge, then things start getting weird. Like, with two bars remaining it will do 3 or 5 photos on continuous then just stop and go black, only allowing a reboot when the battery is removed. Then it will go back on, but just repeat. So when we rebooted it it would read any of the recent photos. 

> So it looks like it works from about 3 bars to 2, or so, then gets unpredictable. No brown-out detection? Pretty weird. And the other is just bricked on the welcome screen. But I guess at least we have a second battery! ;)


[warren](../profile/warren) replying to: [Cheap, lightweight GoPro alternatives for aerial mapping?](../notes/warren/05-20-2017/cheap-lightweight-gopro-alternatives-for-aerial-mapping)

