---
cid: 23056
node: [Calculating NDVI - using PiNoIR camera and blue filter](../notes/JLJ/04-09-2018/calculating-ndvi-using-pinoir-camera-and-blue-filter)
nid: 16120
created_at: 2018-04-09 22:23:20 +0000
timestamp: 1523312600
uid: 554
author: [cfastie](../profile/cfastie)
---

It is possible to compute a facsimile of NDVI from a single photo taken with a Pi NoIR camera and blue filter. The blue channel in the photo will capture mostly blue light, and the red channel will capture mostly NIR. Instead of using red light for visible light, blue light is used. To use red light for visible light, a red filter can be used.  
,  
The sensor in the Pi camera and all consumer cameras is not as sensitive to NIR as it is to visible light, so the relative values for NIR and visible light will not represent the actual difference between visible and NIR light reflected form foliage. Therefore the computed NDVI values will not be similar to legacy NDVI values. The photo from the Pi camera must be modified with a calibration process before it will produce meaningful NDVI.  
,   
To produce an NDVI image from a photo, you can use the Photo monitoring plugin for Fiji: https://github.com/nedhorning/PhotoMonitoringPlugin.   
, 
Your lettuce must be illuminated by sunlight or other source with a strong and consistent component of NIR. As the color or angle of the light source changes, the computed NDVI values will change, so to discern subtle changes in lettuce vigor, the light source for photos must be held constant.  
,   
Chris

[cfastie](../profile/cfastie) replying to: [Calculating NDVI - using PiNoIR camera and blue filter](../notes/JLJ/04-09-2018/calculating-ndvi-using-pinoir-camera-and-blue-filter)

