---
node: what data-logger will work with my portable HCHO meter?
author: cfastie
created_at: 2018-04-10 13:28:11 +0000
timestamp: 1523366891
nid: 16028
cid: 23057
uid: 554
---



[cfastie](../profile/cfastie) replying to: [what data-logger will work with my portable HCHO meter?](../notes/nshapiro/03-27-2018/what-data-logger-will-work-with-my-portable-hcho-meter)

----
There is a very simple way to read the HCHO sensor with a resolution of about 10 ppb, assuming the range of the sensor is 0 to 1000ppb. (Out of the box an Arduino should read the HCHO sensor with a resolution of about 30 ppb.) 

All standard Arduinos have a pin called "aref" (analog reference). By default the analog reference for reading analog signals is the voltage of the arduino board (around either 3.3V or 5V). But the actual voltage in the logic circuits of an Arduino can vary and is often slightly less than 3.3V or 5V. So for the precision reading of analog signals, you can supply a known voltage to the aref pin and the Arduino will use that voltage as the reference. Unfortunately, the lowest voltage you can supply to aref is 1.1V (1100 mV). With 1100mV as the reference, the maximum output of 100mV of the HCHO sensor would be 10% of the 10 bit range of the Arduino ADC. With 10 bit resolution (1024 increments) between 0 and 1100mV, there are 102 increments between 0 and 100mV. If 100mV represents 1000ppb, then each resolvable increment of mV equals about 10ppb.  

The even better news is that you don't actually have to supply an external voltage to the aref pin.  You can just tell the Arduino  to use 1.1V as the analog reference. Include in the setup section the line 
  
     analogReference(INTERNAL);   
.  


and the board will use 1.1V as aref.  So if 10ppb is sufficient resolution, the HCHO sensor might work fine out of the box with this one line added.

Chris

