---
node: what data-logger will work with my portable HCHO meter?
author: kinasmith
created_at: 2018-04-11 14:48:54 +0000
timestamp: 1523458134
nid: 16028
cid: 23062
uid: 445906
---



[kinasmith](../profile/kinasmith) replying to: [what data-logger will work with my portable HCHO meter?](../notes/nshapiro/03-27-2018/what-data-logger-will-work-with-my-portable-hcho-meter)

----
I'll just chime in here for a second as someone who has worked a lot with arduino dataloggers and ADC's, etc. 

I agree with [@cfastie](/profile/cfastie) on all points. Putting a 300mV signal into an Arduino analog pin will not be a good solution if you're looking for precision. However, many of the hobby electronics houses like adafruit or sparkfun sell ADC breakout boards. A quick search brought up [this device](https://www.adafruit.com/product/1085) which would likely work well. It also has what's known as a Programmable Gain Amplifier, which could amplify a low voltage input signal to take advantage of the full range of the ADC device for small signal levels like this sensor has. Building your own amplifier might be an easy task, but it would likely be more trouble that it's worth and add in more unknowns in regard to performance and temperature. AND with an off the shelf ADC like this one, you'll get performance/temperature graphs in the datasheet. I'd be happy to help dig through some datasheets to find this information, it's almost my favorite thing to do! 

Also I have code kicking around for converting ADC values back into voltages, and would be happy to help work on the conversions from voltage into actual units.

Putting a temperature sensor inside of this device as close to the actual sensor as possible would be a really good idea, even if you're not doing temperature calibration correction right now, having the temperature data would make it possible to do later after you either get, or make temperature calibration curves. 

SUMMARY: Use and External ADC for low voltages; Temperature calibration is important; I'd like to help!

AND actually a quick amendment to this regarding dataloggers: The [Mini-Pearl](https://publiclab.org/notes/cfastie/03-04-2018/assembling-a-mini-pearl-pro-logger) would be a great build for the actually data storage half. The external ADC could just fit in in the place of the "I2C sensor" in the diagram at the top of the page. I haven't seen an off-the-shelf arduino based datalogger that works better than just wiring together breakout boards like this.