---
cid: 23079
node: [Should I invest in balloons or a drone for windless aerial photography/mapping? ](../notes/Kmckeown/04-12-2018/should-i-invest-in-balloons-or-a-drone-for-windless-aerial-photography-mapping)
nid: 16141
created_at: 2018-04-20 00:05:01 +0000
timestamp: 1524182701
uid: 4
author: [mathew](../profile/mathew)
---

[@cfastie](/profile/cfastie) mentions the most pernicious fact of flying-- once you start collecting equipment you might never stop. That's true for whichever method you choose.

While I enthusiastically endorse the sheer delight of flying solar balloons, they are an impractical way to take low-altitude photos. They also have to be [too big](https://publiclab.org/wiki/balloon-mapping-regulations) for tethered flights above 100' or so.

At this point drones are a great deal, especially with built in cameras. Multicopters, however, are aimed at video-making and low-altitude oblique photography. Most inexpensive ones don't have much stamina for mapping missions. When multicopters crash, they crash hard and break parts.

Consider a fixed-wing. Although less mass-market and with fewer out-of-the-box options, I think fixed wings are a less expensive platform long-term. Batteries R/C equipment can be swapped and cannibalized between new foam bodies that are cheap.

Fixed wings also lift more for a given weight. You might even be able to put a small camera on one of the 250g models that don't need registration.

Many fixed wings come with crash-resistant foam bodies. Styrene foams EPS and XPS are good for wings but crack in crashes, while EPO/EPE/EPP are nearly indestructable (think pool noodle). 

[mathew](../profile/mathew) replying to: [Should I invest in balloons or a drone for windless aerial photography/mapping? ](../notes/Kmckeown/04-12-2018/should-i-invest-in-balloons-or-a-drone-for-windless-aerial-photography-mapping)

