---
cid: 23187
node: [Where can we share well water data?](../notes/stevie/08-01-2018/where-can-we-share-well-water-data)
nid: 16825
created_at: 2018-08-02 14:23:08 +0000
timestamp: 1533219788
uid: 422561
author: [stevie](../profile/stevie)
---

**Answers that came in from Twitter:** (handles below from Twitter) 

From Shadrock Roberts - [@Shadrocker](/profile/Shadrocker) : 
One option would be to put it into [@OpenStreetMapUS](/profile/OpenStreetMapUS). I don't know of any community databases exclusively for well water, though. [@rrlash](/profile/rrlash) [@jerry_shannon](/profile/jerry_shannon) [@rjhale](/profile/rjhale) [@mattzook](/profile/mattzook) ya'll have any ideas?

  - Randal Hale - [@rjhale](/profile/rjhale) : OSM is probably a good place - but you stand the chance of someone deleting/altering it.
  - From Matthew Zook - [@mattzook](/profile/mattzook):  No real ideas besides the ones suggest, OSM would be widely distributed

From Jerry Shannon - [@jerry_shannon](/profile/jerry_shannon) :
How public is it? Is this something for anyone to access or for use by a specific community group? I could imagine using something like [@OpenDataKit](/profile/OpenDataKit) and [@onadata](/profile/onadata), which gives you a way to dynamically access the data. Or [@fulcrumapp](/profile/fulcrumapp), though that has a cost.

 - From Jerry Shannon [@jerry_shannon](/profile/jerry_shannon) : If the goal is to make results easily visible, I'd think about a [@LeafletJS](/profile/LeafletJS) map hosted on [@github](/profile/github). The dataset could go in the repo and be dynamically updated as results come in. A Shiny app from [@rstudio](/profile/rstudio) would be another option. Both would have front end technical investment.
 - From Public Lab - [@PublicLab](/profile/PublicLab) : Ideally something anyone can access
 - From Ona - [@onadata](/profile/onadata) :  Ona public projects (free!) have map visualizations built in. You can import existing data or view live data as it’s collected. Check out our 2016 holiday card dataset: https://ona.io/onasupport/27458/169955#/map …. You can also view photos and charts — and export raw data (in the Overview tab).

From Coleman McCormick -  [@colemanm](/profile/colemanm) : 
We'd be glad to talk about how [@fulcrumapp](/profile/fulcrumapp) Community might be of use here for crowdsourcing / open data collection + publishing

 - From Randal Hale - [@rjhale](/profile/rjhale) : Fulcrum Community is a awesome thing - been using it with one group for over a year.


[stevie](../profile/stevie) replying to: [Where can we share well water data?](../notes/stevie/08-01-2018/where-can-we-share-well-water-data)

