---
cid: 23307
node: [I am getting very low NDVI values.](../notes/Anice/01-09-2019/i-am-getting-very-low-ndvi-values)
nid: 18084
created_at: 2019-01-09 13:50:44 +0000
timestamp: 1547041844
uid: 554
author: [cfastie](../profile/cfastie)
---

Although the absolute values you computed for NDVI are lower than they should be, it appears that your process is successfully discriminating between high and low levels of photosynthesis. This is an encouraging start. There are a few adjustments which could produce more realistic NDVI values.

For future photography:

1. Exposure is important. Darker or lighter photos will produce different ranges of NDVI.
2. Custom white balance on a different color paper or in different light can make a big difference. A good color to search for is a [deep red or purple like the one here.](https://publiclab.org/notes/Claytonb/08-13-2016/plant-health-ndvi-white-balance)

To modify the results from the current photos:

1. Modify the values in the red channel of the aerial photos to compensate for the contamination of the red channel with NIR light. This will make the red values smaller and therefore make the NDVI values bigger.
2. Stretch the values in one or both channels so that they are spread over more of the entire range from 0 to 255. Depending on the exposure of the aerial photos, most of the values in a channel could be similar to one another instead of including more of the potential range. A simple rescaling of the values can alter the range of the final NDVI values. Ideally, the aerial photos would be taken so that the values better exploited the entire potential range, but post-photography rescaling is a hack that sometimes works.

Chris

[cfastie](../profile/cfastie) replying to: [I am getting very low NDVI values.](../notes/Anice/01-09-2019/i-am-getting-very-low-ndvi-values)

