---
cid: 23322
node: [How do I interpret the relationship between the schema.rb file and the models?](../notes/bsugar/03-02-2019/how-do-i-interpret-the-relationship-between-the-schema-rb-file-and-the-models)
nid: 18446
created_at: 2019-03-04 20:14:32 +0000
timestamp: 1551730472
uid: 1
author: [warren](../profile/warren)
---

Hi [@bsugar](/profile/bsugar)!

 1) While there are answer models, question controllers, and question views, am I correct in understanding that a "question" is actually just a research note with a power tag?

That's right!

2a) Take, for example, the comment model. Does the image below reflect the accompanying code?

I think so... it looks right!

2b) How does the last line has_many :likes, :as => :likeable fit into the picture? There are functions in the model for liked_by, likers, emoji_likes, and user_reactions_map but how are the likes connected to the comments model?

I believe this is a complex case because one can like a node, a comment, or (maybe? I forget) an answer. Also, reacting with an emoji is a form of liking - or, you could say, when you star something in the UI, you are liking it in one way, but if you react with an emoji you're doing something similar but with a different kind of like. 

From a quick skim of this search: https://github.com/publiclab/plots2/search?q=likeable

I believe `likeable` is a generic term for something that can be liked, including comments and nodes. I hope that helps!

As to the broader Q: `How do I interpret the relationship between the schema.rb file and the models?`

The schema.rb should describe the database itself. In fact it's possible to run something like `rake db:dump` (not sure exact command) to generate a schema.rb file from a live database, with no information at all from the Rails app itself. This "teaches" the rails app what's in the database and what structure it has. Then we build models over that which extend and inter-relate the database tables with relationships (has_many, belongs_to) and methods. For more on this, see https://guides.rubyonrails.org/active_record_basics.html

This roughly follows this pattern: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Active_record_pattern

Hope this helps!

[warren](../profile/warren) replying to: [How do I interpret the relationship between the schema.rb file and the models?](../notes/bsugar/03-02-2019/how-do-i-interpret-the-relationship-between-the-schema-rb-file-and-the-models)

