---
cid: 23397
node: [Outreachy'19 Proposal: Public Lab UI Improvements](../notes/IshaGupta18/03-22-2019/outreachy-19-proposal-public-lab-ui-improvements)
nid: 18806
created_at: 2019-03-24 17:06:23 +0000
timestamp: 1553447183
uid: 1
author: [warren](../profile/warren)
---

 Wow, there is a lot here to discuss, thank you [@IshaGupta18](/profile/IshaGupta18)! I'll comment on a few as I go through it:

> "Tell us about yourself" placeholder text 

I like how you're distinguishing between how things will look to a new user, who hasn't input much yet, and a more filled-out page. This is hard to capture on a static mockup. 

Also, the idea of using the Tag visualization for a single user is pretty interesting! I wonder if it might be displayed instead of the map, if you press a toggle button. Maybe we could have a button switch the "Map" view to a "Topics" view... so we don't have 2 major visual displays competing? Just an idea though...

I'm thinking about the use of the blue buttons -- we typically want only one or at most two to appear on any given page, because they are designed to call attention (this isn't consistent across PL currently but it should be part of our upcoming style guide). The `follow`, `rss` and other blue buttons - could we make them smaller white, minimal buttons so they create less visual clutter? They aren't primary functions of the page, so they could be tucked away a little, you know? 

Also, there are just so many circular tabs; is there any way to establish a hierarchy of importance, so that we don't simply bombard people with too many things? 

In my latest attempt at the profile page mockup (in the shared design doc here: https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1TCZoTfuhamRVrUak8aDgqJAwSgyhRtZg2Pgacl2_4zc/edit#slide=id.g4e2261b4b2_0_0) I tried making some of these into simply links, and not whole tabs, and relying on external pages to display them, rather than adding to the complexity of the profile page. This type of page is currently broken but we could debug it: 
https://publiclab.org/tag/coqui/author/zengirl2 (bug [filed here](https://github.com/publiclab/plots2/issues/5099)). 

For the design of the circular tabs, I do think there is a lot of benefit to using a familiar UI convention, as people will immediately recognize, for example, more traditional tabs, or other forms of organizing information. Perhaps there's an option in Froala Design Blocks that would help to structure the information in a more recognizable way for people? https://www.froala.com/design-blocks 

Innovating in design is not a bad thing at all, but it's good to balance this with the benefits of a familiar interface that people would already know how to use. Open for discussion!

> A "Recent Activity" section

Like what's going on here and you're thinking through some of the details of how the new designs will work, esp things that aren't apparent in the static mockups. I like the question of "how do we determine the ordering" of topic areas -- this will be important when we actually code it up. 

1. Do we make a query of all tags, joining the most recent post which appears in each, and sort by the creation date of the most recent post? what would this query look like in ActiveRecord?
2. What if a post is cross-referenced with 2 tags, do we then suppress it from appearing in other topic listings to avoid redundancy, and how? With a `distinct` call in ActiveRecord?

> Recommended/featured Questions

I'm thinking about how we might really achieve this best on the individual Tag/Topic pages, like https://publiclab.org/tag/coqui, for example. Could we do a better job there than simply having all mixed together on one page? And so perhaps the bottom of the Questions page would be better as a listing of topics, kind of like the dashboard, but showing questions lists instead of all posts within each card. Just speculating here...


I like where you're going with search and search results pages; the first very minimal like Google, the second more standardized. How could we show results for several different content types, and how do other websites do this? 


For search results, perhaps tabs makes sense, or nav pills in a left-hand column? I think we should look carefully at Bootstrap styles (http://getbootstrap.com/) and examples from other sites.  

Finally in terms of timeline, i think the People page may be pretty simple and could be done earlier, potentially, and then the card designs for the Topics (/tags) and people pages could be re-used in the dashboard pretty easily. 

The Search pages are maybe the most in need of updating and they aren't super complex as designs, so we might push them earlier in the timeline too?

The profile and questions pages are the pages with the most left to do in design work, so we might consider those later in the project, and leave time to think through them. 

Thanks again [@IshaGupta18](/profile/IshaGupta18), and for others, these comments are surely helpful for everyone's proposals as well! I'm happy to hear everyone's thoughts on these, thanks so much!

[warren](../profile/warren) replying to: [Outreachy'19 Proposal: Public Lab UI Improvements](../notes/IshaGupta18/03-22-2019/outreachy-19-proposal-public-lab-ui-improvements)

