---
node: Outreachy proposal: Public Lab UI Improvements
author: rexagod
created_at: 2019-03-27 17:17:03 +0000
timestamp: 1553707023
nid: 18851
cid: 23482
uid: 564358
---



[rexagod](../profile/rexagod) replying to: [Outreachy proposal: Public Lab UI Improvements](../notes/tonchuks/03-26-2019/outreachy-proposal-public-lab-ui-improvements)

----
Hey there, [@tonchuks](/profile/tonchuks)! This is off to a great start!!

There are some things I'd like you to consider.

- First off, can you share with us some code snippets (map integration, tests, etc.) and designs to have a more "in-depth" idea, so that we can visualize things better from your perspective? This will also make your proposal undoubtedly more convincing.  These don't have to be much, just the least number of illustrations you believe that clearly communicate the message across. 😃 

- I do want to point out the fact that candidates may need to deal with a bit of back-end as is mentioned on PublicLab's outreachy page (quoted below).
> It will involve some new JavaScript and Ruby on Rails code to create database calls and collect records for display in those parts of the new page designs that call for new content.

Just skimming through your proposal I noticed that you've taken care of including most of the "bullet points" on the PL outreachy page, so kudos for that! 👍  However, I doubt that all this UI revamp maybe in need of some backend manipulation to display data in the desired form in its respective altered UI component, whatever that might be. Therefore, can I ask you to include some details about such manipulations, given that your project spans and takes into account some (or any) of such server changes? Again, not much but enough to drive the point across!

- Openness and a welcoming environment for the "first-timers" means a lot to us, and we'd love if you can extract out a bit on how your implementations will help out our newer members (by making the website more user-friendly and engaging) -- technical and non-technical?

Please don't hesitate to share your thoughts, if this might seem a bit too much, or any other concerns, either here or with the mailing list if you feel like it, we'd love to help you out in shaping this into a top-notch proposal!

Thank you so much for sharing your proposal with us, this is commendable! 🎉 