---
cid: 23519
node: [Ideas for Footer Design - PublicLab.org](../notes/divyabaid16/03-28-2019/ideas-for-footer-design-publiclab-org)
nid: 18883
created_at: 2019-03-28 18:51:46 +0000
timestamp: 1553799106
uid: 578652
author: [divyabaid16](../profile/divyabaid16)
---

[@lekhidugtal](/profile/lekhidugtal) thank you so much for your response!!!
I'm really glad that you looked at it. 
>What does About us , getting started, RSS and Licenses mean ? They are links right? But they look like tabs

Yes, they are absolute links. But I was figuring out a way to arrange them. I went through many websites and I found arranging it this way the best and the most compactable one. I'm a learner in design and I'm on a learning process. Please correct me whenever I get wrong. 

>What if we provide more language support ? You know what I mean, right.

In this case, we can either add the dropdown menu or if there are less number of languages available, then we can just arrange it within a line  (similar to Google)

And regarding the 4 column thing, the UI was looking a bit messy and there was a huge height difference between the columns making it look uneven, the way it is looking now. And also, another reason was that, there are big lines in the footer so if divided into 4 columns the lines would spread out to 3-4 lines which would (I guess) won't look very good.

>Work on color, typography, display of content
 
I would love some more detailed suggestions here.

And I have tried to incorporate all the changes suggested by you.

Thank you so much!!!

[divyabaid16](../profile/divyabaid16) replying to: [Ideas for Footer Design - PublicLab.org](../notes/divyabaid16/03-28-2019/ideas-for-footer-design-publiclab-org)

