---
node: Ideas for Footer Design - PublicLab.org
author: lekhidugtal
created_at: 2019-03-28 12:55:40 +0000
timestamp: 1553777740
nid: 18883
cid: 23510
uid: 577754
---



[lekhidugtal](../profile/lekhidugtal) replying to: [Ideas for Footer Design - PublicLab.org](../notes/divyabaid16/03-28-2019/ideas-for-footer-design-publiclab-org)

----
 Hi [@divyabaid16](/profile/divyabaid16)
I really liked the [#222](/n/222). Even, I had been incorporating some idea regarding this color.   
I like watching people design, so great to see another work !!!!!!  
It will be long comment maybe. The discussion mode is ON. 😃   
I'm very curious and had  questions - 

* What does About us , getting started, RSS and Licenses mean ? They are links right ? But they look like tabs 🤔   
* What if we provide more language support ? You know what I mean, right.  
And can we decrease the size of social font-icons? Maybe smaller.   
The RSS seem to go out of alignment I guess. But this is basic structure , So not an issue.


Btw This is just one of my opinion,  
How about letting the four column remain in footer, and do some other changes.  
As it's easier to distinguish between contents maybe 😕   
Work on color, typography, display of content 🤔 


One more thing, how would your design will reflect in responsiveness ?  
The links in first row and two column below that. How would we show it in mobile interface. 🤔   
Maybe we can work on it from interactive purpose. 

And and and  
Maybe you forgot this -   
**Help sustain this resource & community: the Public Lab non-profit works to 
maintain this space for community knowledge and dialogue. Contribute to help support it!**

Hey, Glad to see your work. I hope to have some conversation and debate in design and technology  if you're interested 😃 