---
cid: 23563
node: [Call for Summer of Code 2019 proposals!](../notes/warren/02-28-2019/call-for-summer-of-code-2019-proposals)
nid: 18440
created_at: 2019-03-31 05:39:26 +0000
timestamp: 1554010766
uid: 572743
author: [sidntrivedi012](../profile/sidntrivedi012)
---

Hello [@jywarren](/profile/jywarren) and everyone, it has been really wonderful for me to be contributing to Public Lab and eventually to a better society and environment. The community is really very supportive and welcoming to new ideas and people. 

Thus, to make a small contribution from my side,I would like to submit a proposal for the Spectral Workbench Capture idea and would like to work on this project this coming summer and maybe afterwards too. 

Firstly, I will try to complete the integration of the library from the core project code of Spectral Workbench and then I would love to write the tests for it along with debugging any issues if found.

Having done these, I would focus on making it work properly in almost every browser. Also, will debug any issues found with the working of the library on the command line. 

 After this, as mentioned in the idea - will implement a React app around Basic UI modules. But, I have a doubt that whether the React app will be made just for showcasing the basic working of the library and to host its documentation i.e. as an example page or it is being made as a revamp of Spectral Workbench Webapp?

Please guide me as to how should I proceed? I have drafted the sample proposal and will be posting it for review on Monday i.e. April 1, 2019. I am very eager to work on this project. My one of the primary aims of working on this project will be to try to make it beginner-friendly since we see that this project has very less new-contributors and first-timers. Thus, I will try to make as many first-timer-issues as possible so that the community may easily start contributing on this very significant project too.


Thank you.

[sidntrivedi012](../profile/sidntrivedi012) replying to: [Call for Summer of Code 2019 proposals!](../notes/warren/02-28-2019/call-for-summer-of-code-2019-proposals)

