---
cid: 23632
node: [What are some activities for using the Simple Air Sensor as part of a broader air quality project?](../notes/warren/04-02-2019/what-are-some-activities-for-using-the-simple-air-sensor-as-part-of-a-broader-air-quality-project)
nid: 18937
created_at: 2019-04-02 19:39:31 +0000
timestamp: 1554233971
uid: 380298
author: [nshapiro](../profile/nshapiro)
---

 In my perspective the documentation needs to be vastly improved before answering this question. What do you mean by "high precision" in describing the sensor? In my understanding Plantower doesn't use that language when describing the product. How might that language be misleading to non-experts? How does a single PMS 1003 sensor differ from the Purple Air (so that people don't think they are buying just a cheaper version of the purple air w/out quant and logging features)? And as a result, what information about purple air can we extrapolate to help us understand what this sensor can do and what information about purple air can't we extrapolate? What does it mean that these sensors are factory calibrated? What conditions are these sensors good for and what conditions make them wonky? What kind of particulate matter do these sensors work best in (ie they tend to preform worse in traffic-dominant pm than wood smoke-pm)? How fast does factory calibration deteriorate? What are the cut off points for the different colored lights and why? Which would also lead to a question of error (which remains unanswered here: https://publiclab.org/questions/wu_ming2/02-02-2019/how-do-i-calculate-error-for-averages) as the user might want to know what the lights mean and if it changes to a scarier color how accurate + precise that change is. Why should one be interested in just the 2.5 data if the sensor counts (estimates) three sizes? 

Could you specify on the store page who this sensor is for?  I sincerely don't understand how this sensor can be "not intended for data collection" while here you are asking for how it can be used for an air quality project.
 

[nshapiro](../profile/nshapiro) replying to: [What are some activities for using the Simple Air Sensor as part of a broader air quality project?](../notes/warren/04-02-2019/what-are-some-activities-for-using-the-simple-air-sensor-as-part-of-a-broader-air-quality-project)

