---
node: What are some activities for using the Simple Air Sensor as part of a broader air quality project?
author: cfastie
created_at: 2019-04-03 03:32:58 +0000
timestamp: 1554262378
nid: 18937
cid: 23643
uid: 554
---



[cfastie](../profile/cfastie) replying to: [What are some activities for using the Simple Air Sensor as part of a broader air quality project?](../notes/warren/04-02-2019/what-are-some-activities-for-using-the-simple-air-sensor-as-part-of-a-broader-air-quality-project)

----
If a device based on a Plantower sensor includes hardware that allows either live numerical display or data logging, it can be a very useful tool. Someone with science aptitude could use such a device to make meaningful observations and/or test hypotheses. To others it could be an excellent educational tool or advanced science toy.

Replacing the RGB LED with an LCD or OLED display which can display three or four parameters at once (e.g., PM1, PM2.5, PM10) makes the device more useful scientifically and also more engaging to any user. The extra $2.50 is a worthwhile upgrade.

To increase its scientific usefulness, spending $3.50 more to allow easy data logging to microSD card is a bargain.

To be reminded that the precision and/or accuracy of the Plantower sensor should be scrutinized, examine [Figure 10 here](https://publiclab.org/notes/cfastie/11-28-2018/nano-particle-monitoring#Figure10). Note that the relationship among PM1, PM2.5, and PM10 is constant (there is always more PM10 and less PM1). Over the course of two days in my house it is unlikely that the relationship among the three size classes of particles would be that constant. This result suggests that one set of measurements (of laser scattering) is used to estimate all of the parameters output by the sensor. No measurements are made of any particles of any size. An equation is used to translate laser scattering results into an index of particle concentration for each size class. It is literally smoke and mirrors (plus a laser). It is also a very clever and effective design and worthwhile getting into the hands of people interested in testing its capabilities.

The addition of a temperature and humidity sensor (as in the PurpleAir) will allow better estimates of particulate concentrations. Without that added information calibration might be very crude. Using the temperature and humidity data to improve results requires a calibration procedure which is probably beyond the scope of this product. I assume this is done in the PurpleAir devices and that is one reason they can charge so much for them.

Chris