---
cid: 23687
node: [GSoC proposal: Sensor data upload and display library ](../notes/IshaGupta18/03-04-2019/gsoc-proposal-sensor-data-upload-and-display-library)
nid: 18463
created_at: 2019-04-05 12:56:19 +0000
timestamp: 1554468979
uid: 568043
author: [IshaGupta18](../profile/IshaGupta18)
---

 Thanks a lot, [@warren](/profile/warren) for your deep analysis and review! Firstly, I would like to say, different types of graphs is not a problem at all, as they are just types and can be easily passed along with columns.
Secondly, yes the code can split two ways according to the file being  used: previously uploaded and currently uploaded
I think we can definitely do the labeling thing because this way we can display a correct title and proper axis names according to the user. I was also thinking of adding a small text box where the user can describe the type of data he/she has uploaded so that this can be used a short description in displaying per-user data, or elsewhere like the note creation. What do you think?
As I mentioned, I will be redesigning the time-slider, but now I will try to keep it more minimalistic.]
And yes, we could add an option to plot data day by day, we could take this information as an input and plot a separate graph for each day by iteration over the x-axis column (those many separate graphs)
I think we can implement publishing the plots as a research note feature. That would promote reusability and the data can actually be saved like this. Although, I also feel that we should not get rid of the mail report feature, because this mail will not be sending an update but sending the plot and exported CSV as encapsulated data, which the user can use to print or to forward to colleagues. What do you think?
And yes, I did have a look at the current CSV upload thing while doing my research however I felt it might be a little confusing to use that directly here, as a lot of other stuff is being done with the uploaded CSV files and keeping track might get a little harder. However, I will look into its code more deeply and will see how it can be reused.
Thanks again for all the insight, I will get back to you ASAP with the suggested changes!

[IshaGupta18](../profile/IshaGupta18) replying to: [GSoC proposal: Sensor data upload and display library ](../notes/IshaGupta18/03-04-2019/gsoc-proposal-sensor-data-upload-and-display-library)

