---
node: SOC 2019:  A small proposal for global environmental monitoring 
author: warren
created_at: 2019-04-06 15:24:54 +0000
timestamp: 1554564294
nid: 18907
cid: 23708
uid: 1
---



[warren](../profile/warren) replying to: [SOC 2019:  A small proposal for global environmental monitoring ](../notes/MaggPi/03-30-2019/soc-2019-a-small-proposal-for-global-environmental-monitoring)

----
OK, first I really like your overall summary -- `Increasing Image sequencer applications...` especially! `Making satellite data accessible` is also a great goal for the project.

> large file size: Satellite file sizes are typically greater than 100 MBs and this often results in data storage problems. The proposed solution is to develop an Image Sequencer module that restrict file size (10MB) and is centered on a region of interest identified by the user. 

To consider here -- a lot of satellite data is stored as (giant) GeoTiffs by default, and a number of systems have been developed to serve sub-sections of a big GeoTiff over HTTP -- as a way around the need to reprocess GeoTiffs into another format like TMS tiles. (and because if you reformat into TMS, you are kind of "stuck" in the available tile grid, png/jpg image compression, and zoom levels of the TMS format you choose, and it's hard to work back). Some background that's good to know -- https://www.gdal.org/gdal_utilities.html GDAL is perhaps the most authoritative standard toolset for satellite data, but it's not a web-based application, it's a commandline system. It could be interesting (though not directly related here) to look at how the new MapKnitter Exporter dual-track project is creating a web-based toolchain both based on GDAL/ImageMagick, and in parallel, a clone based on Image Sequencer: https://github.com/publiclab/mapknitter/issues/298 -- it will also include a GeoTiff converter for Image Sequencer, which could be useful to you, and in general may be an interesting way to look at how a GDAL-type system can be adapted for web, or replaced by a more optimal JS/Image Sequencer alternative!)

Anyways, i think the "serve subsections of GeoTiffs" idea is called `HTTP Get Range requests` -- more here: http://www.cogeo.org/in-depth.html which... i dunno, could then be piped into Image Sequencer?

Also, I'm guessing you've seen these, which are really minimal, but provide a model for using ImageSequencer in Leaflet:

* https://github.com/publiclab/leaflet-multispectral
* https://github.com/publiclab/leaflet-tile-filter

They're both using a TMS tile model for data, not GeoTiff, but as part of that I found a LOT of tile sources for satellite imagery here: https://github.com/publiclab/leaflet-tile-filter#multispectral-tms-tile-sources

So using only tiles is a viable path, even if it loses some of the original source data in Geotiffs. 

One idea could be to adapt some of the tile-based approach in leaflet-tile-filter or leaflet-multispectral to filtering subselections of GeoTiffs -- maybe building on https://github.com/stuartmatthews/leaflet-geotiff

Here's an interesting mini-problem: how to preserve GeoTiff georeferencing data in non-Tiff file formats? Is there a standard for JPG or PNG that could essentially mirror GeoTiff (GeoJPEG or GeoPNG -- i bet something like this exists) and is it possible to convert lossessly between these? That could be really relevant for [Leaflet.DistortableImage](https://github.com/publiclab/Leaflet.DistortableImage/) as well! 

Some UI and logistical issues which could be great to solve to make the overall goal easier:

* a better UI for piping remote imagery (via URL? via a draggable map?) into ImageSequencer's sequencer UI -- maybe related somehow to the multiple-inputs plan in https://github.com/publiclab/image-sequencer/issues/212
* I think Image Sequencer has matured a lot, but it still lacks sufficient test coverage to be very stable. There are bugs in the crop module, and other modules, both in the UI and in the core module functions. Defaults are inconsistently provided. So I think a lot of work on test coverage might be a prerequisite to building a more complex stable library on top of IS. But the good news is that testing of the modules is pretty easy, and a lot of issues have been ironed out to open a pathway to near-100% coverage. 

Finally, I'm interested in what the UI for a more advanced Image Sequencer based system might look like, for example within a Leaflet UI. This may or may not be the direction you're going, but could it be possible to select an imageOverlay or collection of tiles, and to open IS in a sidebar of a Leaflet map? Or would it be better to have a popup menu toolbar, as provided in https://github.com/publiclab/Leaflet.DistortableImage/, with https://github.com/leaflet/Leaflet.Toolbar ?

This is a really interesting and awesome project, [@MaggPi](/profile/MaggPi), thanks so much! I think OpenCV.js will likely open up a huge set of possibilities, and this is a really interesting direction to go in. I think it's also possible that it may link up with [@rexagod](/profile/rexagod)'s proposal in some places, if both of you are able to work in well-documented standard ways -- for example, a number of OpenCV abilities may be relevant to feature point matching, for example. 

Small question - what formats does Planet Labs provide?

Finally, i wonder what some specific workflows and abilities might be that you could describe that are /not/ possible from a web-based platform currently that you would be opening up and making easier for people through this project? Are there some applications using Planet Labs imagery that are currently only doable using complex or command-line software, or other use cases for NASA imagery that would be made more possible here? Some more examples could be great to outline. 

Thanks a lot - i left a lot of thoughts here, you don't have to adopt them all but I hope they're interesting. 