---
node: SoC Proposal : Spectral Workbench Capture
author: warren
created_at: 2019-04-06 15:47:04 +0000
timestamp: 1554565624
nid: 18922
cid: 23709
uid: 1
---



[warren](../profile/warren) replying to: [SoC Proposal : Spectral Workbench Capture](../notes/sidntrivedi012/04-01-2019/soc-proposal-spectral-workbench-capture)

----
 This is so cool! OK, a few ideas immediately:

1. testing is so essential!!! 👍  but some parts may be complicated, like how do we test the webcam access portion? 
2. how might we interface with or share components with the `spectral-workbench.js`lib for displaying collected data? Could we and would we want to?
3. shall we try to collect the Rails URLs which the current lib accesses or posts to, and make a list, in order to know what  remote calls the library may have to make? Oh, i see! Your flow chart does this!!! Awesome. 
4. There is a slightly revised version of capture.js in https://github.com/publiclab/spectral-workbench.js/, which is architecturally cleaner, but not integrated back in. I think potentially the right plan might be to continue cleaning, isolating, and refining the library and then figure out how to ensure it can integrate smoothly with the Rails app, and include it back in using Bower or NPM. 

OK, another set of things that could be great to try to work in -- there are features which really help with the capture process:

1. auto-calibration -- building on this code, the capture interface can detect known peaks in the graph and try to auto-calibrate: https://github.com/publiclab/spectral-workbench/issues/167
2. varying resolutions - we currently only capture at one resolution. which is too bad!
3. improved and standardized tools for ` Auto-select Sample Row` ` Flip image`  `Rotate`and `Find centroid` and more!
4. a more standardized way to add new tools and continue expanding the library

Great proposal, thank you!