---
cid: 23719
node: [GSoC proposal:  Image Sequencer](../notes/aashnaaashna/04-03-2019/soc-proposal-image-sequencer)
nid: 18943
created_at: 2019-04-06 20:10:36 +0000
timestamp: 1554581436
uid: 1
author: [warren](../profile/warren)
---

 [@aashnaaashna](/profile/aashnaaashna) this is so great! Great proposal. We've been grateful for your excellent work in `image-sequencer` over the past months. 

> TCS

Cool! Actually over 10 years ago I briefly worked at TCS in Borivali. That's when I took my "monkey" profile picture (that I recently changed, made me a little sad) - what memories 😃 🐵 

I like how in this proposal, you've addressed several important things:

1. stabilizing the underlying `image-sequencer` project through testing, code coverage tracking, standardization. This will be critical as this project matures and you're right to see it as a prerequisite for more complex end-use cases!
2. top-priority UI enhancements that will really help this become an everyday tool for people. And i think UI testing will have to be part of this too, as the increasingly complex UI work (which is sooooo useful) is also more brittle, and has been breaking more often!
3. a real-world use case. I think that as we get more stability, these will increasingly tell the story of Image Sequencer to a wider audience, and people will start to see why we built it. There are lots of really interesting things that have become possible now that it has gotten so powerful, and this is a great opportunity to solve some real-world problems and ALSO show what IS is good at!

I wonder if some of these observations might encourage you to push things like CodeClimate earlier in your schedule? And also, might there be opportunities to invite new contributors to help solve parts of your projects if it's well broken up into independent small parts, and some made into FTOs? 

Thanks so much for a great proposal. This is very exciting!

[warren](../profile/warren) replying to: [GSoC proposal:  Image Sequencer](../notes/aashnaaashna/04-03-2019/soc-proposal-image-sequencer)

