---
node: MapKnitter Aerial Image labelling to detect Environmental issues using machine vision
author: warren
created_at: 2019-04-06 19:52:13 +0000
timestamp: 1554580333
nid: 18950
cid: 23717
uid: 1
---



[warren](../profile/warren) replying to: [MapKnitter Aerial Image labelling to detect Environmental issues using machine vision](../notes/sauvzi13397/04-03-2019/mapknitter-aerial-image-labelling-to-detect-environmental-issues-using-machine-vision)

----
Hi! This is a big ambitious project, and thank you so much for posting it! I have some input which doesn't address the technical components directly but rather the logistics around it and also the community involvement side. 

1. re-usability: I'm really interested in how each component might be re-usable by other groups, or how good modularity might mean that future contributors could swap out a part that has been improved on by a new approach. Can you describe a little bit about how this might be possible? Would the connection points between each step, or the input-output formats be well documented and-or based on common standards?
2. community input will be really valuable, in many areas, but especially on helping contribute and classify imagery (say in zooniverse). How would people be able to see how their help improves the system? Is there some kind of feedback loop where, for example, they could see that 10, or 100 people have contributed classifications in the past week, and this was fed into the model and produced better matches by some percent? Is there any way to track that kind of progress over time that could help to close the feedback loop with people helping out by contributing images or classifications? 
3. Is there a way that adding more metadata to OSM would be helpful? Would a "map-a-thon" of landfills, or spills, in OSM be a useful way to contribute, and potentially result in more re-usable data than Zooniverse, or at least a different kind of data? 
4. Could there be a pathway to regularly import new contributed data in OSM or Zooniverse and see its effects on the system, and how might that be documented?
5. Actually maybe it's a good idea to update the flowchart above to show who can help with what portions -- like, where does community input help and how often would new community training data or OSM tagging be incorporated into that flowchart? This may help people who don't do machine learning coding understand the role they can play in improving this system
6. What might the UI for using this system look like? How might people use the system to find a type of pollution? 
7. Re-usability: would it be possible to run this in a Docker container, and so to easily start up the project anywhere and know that the system will run smoothly? We have Google Cloud credits that could make this easier. I think it's really critical that the complex work that you do be somehow easy to boot up and run by other people. Thanks!

Just a note also - here are some good sources of tiled image data that could be helpful, either for training, or for analysis: https://github.com/publiclab/leaflet-tile-filter#multispectral-tms-tile-sources

Thanks so much! Lots of questions here but it's because it's a really interesting proposal! Thanks for your initiative and your passion!