---
node: GSoC proposal: LEL 2.0 and work on Leaflet-Blurred projects .
author: warren
created_at: 2019-04-06 20:00:53 +0000
timestamp: 1554580853
nid: 18500
cid: 23718
uid: 1
---



[warren](../profile/warren) replying to: [GSoC proposal: LEL 2.0 and work on Leaflet-Blurred projects .](../notes/sagarpreet/03-09-2019/gsoc-proposal-lel-2-0-and-work-on-leaflet-blurred-projects)

----
 Hi [@sagarpreet](/profile/sagarpreet), thank you! Are you now able to edit your proposal on PL.org again? Sorry i should have followed up more on that. 

Overall i LOVE your plan for re-architecting. I love the idea of there being a parser component. 

> I feel LEL has the potential to welcome many new first-time contributors . Let's make the documentation of how to add a new layer so easy and well structured that a new contributor can start work immediately .

This is so true, and we can see how in `image-sequencer` the 'module' concept caught on so fast -- people only have to know (with good docs) how to make a module, and they can make a really substantive contribution to the library. Critical to this was making the format of each module really standard, and also easy! Few steps. 

Another thing I'm really looking forward to is the idea of multiple swappable UIs. The current menu UI can see some improvements like organizing by type. But the bigger UI described in https://github.com/publiclab/leaflet-environmental-layers/issues/60#issuecomment-460462757 is something we could even run in parallel at the same time. And with the right listeners, callbacks, and documentation, people may even build more different UIs for LEL. This is a big part of the project too. 

However, I think it's possible that we may have more than one person working on LEL this summer! So, although I'd love to hear a little of your ideas for how the UI interfaces with the core library, implementing the bigger UI I linked to doesn't have to be a major part of your proposal necessarily. 

Thanks a lot [@sagarpreet](/profile/sagarpreet)! This library has grown so much and it's time to think bigger, and your additions and plans above make for a great roadmap! 😃 