---
cid: 23726
node: [SoC proposal: Community Toolbox overhaul](../notes/icode365/03-02-2019/soc-proposal)
nid: 18450
created_at: 2019-04-06 20:55:35 +0000
timestamp: 1554584135
uid: 1
author: [warren](../profile/warren)
---

This is all really nice, thank you [@icode365](/profile/icode365) !!!

I think you've covered a lot of great points here. I'll chime in with some ideas:

> Adding Leaderboard of contributors 

Although the competitive spirit sounds good, i wonder if we might adapt this into something like "most helpful" rather than most code contributed. Just in terms of the spirit of our community, people who write a lot of code are probably doing OK -- we appreciate them for sure! But people who haven't yet, maybe they need more encouragement. So what if we encouraged people who provide support, like in offering reviews, even leaving friendly emoji responses. It's hard to measure though! 

One related idea is in (https://github.com/publiclab/community-toolbox/issues/14) where it's possible to include not only people whose code was included, but other kinds of contributions as well. Maybe this would help? There are some nice icon schemas for showing types of contributions, too!

What about some easier way to "add Community Toolbox to your site" -- to help people in other open source projects use the platform? Could we have a Community Toolbox badge to add to your repository? Some display of `how many FTOs are available` or `how many people are there to support`?

I'd love to hear a bit more on these ideas! Thanks for a great proposal!!!

[warren](../profile/warren) replying to: [SoC proposal: Community Toolbox overhaul](../notes/icode365/03-02-2019/soc-proposal)

