---
node: SoC proposal: GSoC: Websocket Implementation for Real-time Usage and Sensor data and Display Library
author: warren
created_at: 2019-04-06 20:48:25 +0000
timestamp: 1554583705
nid: 18452
cid: 23724
uid: 1
---



[warren](../profile/warren) replying to: [SoC proposal: GSoC: Websocket Implementation for Real-time Usage and Sensor data and Display Library](../notes/namangupta/03-02-2019/soc-proposal)

----
Hi, all!  I wanted to note that one thing we are really looking for is more consistent test coverage -- as our system becomes more complex, tests are one of the only ways we can manage this complexity and ensure complex systems keep working normally even as lots of new code is added. Also, with tests running (even system tests! https://github.com/publiclab/plots2/issues/5316) we are much more confident in merging PRs that are well modularized, with unit, functional, and system tests guaranteeing that they work. 

I wanted to suggest a few things with this in mind --

> Integrate Sockets for Real-Time addition of Answers.

Answers have been merged into comments, so this can be deleted! 😃 

> Integrate Sockets for Real-Time liking and user is typing.

This one, i'm not as sure of, because it seems almost not worth running through the sockets system. What if we, by eliminating these two, made more space for regular testing in the plan? 

Also, we could use more help in engaging newcomers in the project. Would there be opportunities to do this if the project were broken into smaller parts with clear tests, so that they could be worked on in parallel? We could even bring on some subsystems before they're actually used in production code, as long as they have tests, and then people could work in parallel on them. 

For example, we could bring the notifications online via the JS API but have them not activate unless the user presses a button that polls. Then once sockets work, they could be plugged into that system. This may enable more collaborative work, and also the notifications could be tested in system tests independently from the sockets code. What do you think?

For the sensor library code, I wrote a lot about how such a project might be structured in my response to [@IshaGupta18](/profile/IshaGupta18)'s proposal -- and updated it again recently. I think it's worth a read, and I don't want to sound like a broken record, so i'll link there: https://publiclab.org/notes/IshaGupta18/03-04-2019/gsoc-proposal-sensor-data-upload-and-display-library

Thanks so much [@namangupta](/profile/namangupta) !!!