---
cid: 23765
node: [How to interpret PMS5003 sensor values?](../notes/samr/04-07-2019/how-to-interpret-pms5003-sensor-values)
nid: 18997
created_at: 2019-04-08 19:52:18 +0000
timestamp: 1554753138
uid: 7
author: [liz](../profile/liz)
---

Here's a link to a comprehensive thread from last year where [@sagarpreet](/profile/sagarpreet) was exploring how to visualize a global layer of Purple Air readings. 
https://publiclab.org/questions/sagarpreet/06-22-2018/what-is-the-correct-aqi-measure

I find the discussion on this thread relevant to your question in the following ways:

* you can read in [here in this comment](/questions/sagarpreet/06-22-2018/what-is-the-correct-aqi-measure#c19907) where [@nanocastro](/profile/nanocastro) advises not to convert a pm2.5 reading into an AQI because an AQI is a particular combination of pollutants, each one of which is averaged over a specific period of time. 
* you can read in [this comment](/questions/sagarpreet/06-22-2018/what-is-the-correct-aqi-measure#c21257) as [@jeffalk](/profile/jeffalk) goes into detail regarding the 24 hour averages, and what is known about health impacts after exposure at 24hour averaged levels by health research. He reports that _"EPA AQI uses an average of the past 12 hours with an estimation (prediction) of the next 12 hours to assess the air NOW. If you are not able to do that prediction part, you will be misappropriating the risk (health) aspect of the formula and possibly misinforming those you want to communicate with. If you are not able to do the prediction part I maintain you should provide information stating you are using a modified and unassessed version of the USEPA AQI. My suspicion is that PurpleAir does not do this prediction part and, as many people do, takes the most current reading or average over a short period of time, and plugs it into the formula in place of the correct 24 hour past and future average. Whether you use the AQI or particulate density this addresses the color you use and its risk assessment (or actually misappropriation of risk assessment!)"_
* [@guolivar](/profile/guolivar) observes [farther down in the thread](/questions/sagarpreet/06-22-2018/what-is-the-correct-aqi-measure#c19935) that there is no single one right answer and that the essential point to understand is that _"AQ indices are designed for COMMUNICATION purposes so the question is not 'should I report concentrations or indices?" but rather "what am I trying to communicate?'"_ He goes on to articulate that "health effect based" indices try to communicate "risk to people" rather than "state of the air", and that when using indices, _"you need to be VERY careful with the averaging times you're using and you need to be very transparent on where you got the calculations from because if you tell people that their air is OK but it isn't, you're in trouble."_

[liz](../profile/liz) replying to: [How to interpret PMS5003 sensor values?](../notes/samr/04-07-2019/how-to-interpret-pms5003-sensor-values)

