---
cid: 23772
node: [How to interpret PMS5003 sensor values?](../notes/samr/04-07-2019/how-to-interpret-pms5003-sensor-values)
nid: 18997
created_at: 2019-04-08 23:05:10 +0000
timestamp: 1554764710
uid: 424197
author: [guolivar](../profile/guolivar)
---

 Quickly to your question of:
**For example, the first 6 are two sets of PM1, PM2.5, and PM10 concentrations. the first set are labeled "standard", while the second set are labeled "atmospheric environment". What do these measure and how do the "standard" ones differ from the "atmospheric environment" ones?**

It has to do with the density of the air used for calculations. "Standard" refers to the concentration "corrected" to the "standard atmosphere" which in the US is DEFINED as "having a temperature of 288.15 K at the sea level 0 km geo-potential height and 1013.25 hPa" [details here](https://www.engineeringtoolbox.com/standard-atmosphere-d_604.html)

On the other hand, the "ambient conditions" are just as the air is "now" (whatever temperature and pressure there is)
Now what does that mean ...

Air being a gas, it is compressible which means that it changes its volume when the pressure changes so when you report concentrations as mass per _volume of air_ it is relevant at what pressure that volume is calculated. For example, if you have a bunch of particles rising in the air in a bubble (no loss of particles, no addition, they're just riding a bubble up in the air) then, as they rise, the pressure drops so what was 1cc at the ground it is now 2cc so the concentration is now half without anything actually changing other than the ambient pressure. So, it is common to report concentrations (of anything) as "x mg per standard m3" and because we scientist don't like to write much (current example excluded) you'll usually see the "standard" being dropped because it is "implicit".

For gases it is also common to report concentrations as "parts per million" or "ppm" and that metric is independent of the volume of air as it represents the number of molecules of the gas in a million molecules of air (including the target gas) [see here the current concentration of CO2](https://www.co2.earth/)

In conclusion, I always use the "standard" readings for reporting but keep the "ambient conditions" for analysis. I haven't used these things in high altitudes so for all my deployments the standard and ambient are very similar.

 I hope it helps and I'm happy to be corrected if anyone has information that hints that the "standard" refers to "standard dust" rather than "standard atmosphere".

[guolivar](../profile/guolivar) replying to: [How to interpret PMS5003 sensor values?](../notes/samr/04-07-2019/how-to-interpret-pms5003-sensor-values)

