---
cid: 23774
node: [Horticultural Spectrometer Upgrade - Planning](../notes/jenjimah/04-07-2019/horticultural-spectroscope-upgrade-planning)
nid: 18991
created_at: 2019-04-08 23:39:58 +0000
timestamp: 1554766798
uid: 54025
author: [stoft](../profile/stoft)
---

Interesting project.

I did not readily find spectral response curves from Sony on the IMX219 sensor though others in that family of devices appear to have some sensitivity out to 800nm. Might be good to find real data.

On [#2](/n/2), 'good' diffraction gratings are expensive and I suspect for IR more so. For upgrades to the DVD material, I'd suggest focusing on 'true parallel' gratings on rigid material as the distortion from curved DVDs or from holographic film gratings are a bigger issue IMHO than line density. Just a thought. Agreed; a razor blade slit is best; totally opaque with very well defined slit opening edge - just keep them parallel.

On [#3](/n/3), yes CFL for wavelength is good as other choices get very expensive. For amplitude, I'd suggest the Solux 4700k halogen as there is data to 1100nm and the spectral output curve is 'smooth' and stable after warmup.

On [#5](/n/5), I may not be following your optics, but remember the slit provides light collimation  and thus formation of a very narrow-angle ('beam' if you will) of photons orthogonal to the diffraction grating to produce the grating's interference pattern to produce the spectrum. Please pardon if I missed your point, but light 'shining directly into the slit 'at' a small # lines of the grating is want you need. Think of it as illuminating only limited number of grating lines - 20? 50? or such as opposed to the entire grating. The 'broader' the illumination of the grating, the greater the distortion (spreading) of the spectrum because the incident angle changes. If you are wanting to collect light from a larger physical area (to integrate the light collection perhaps) then I can understand collecting light by optics or reflection to a diffuser 'spot area' and then 'point' the spectrometer slit at that spot.

Hope these few thoughts are helpful. You could also browse here: [ https://publiclab.org/notes/author/stoft ] in case some of my past related observations provide some useful ideas for your project.

Cheers,
Dave

[stoft](../profile/stoft) replying to: [Horticultural Spectrometer Upgrade - Planning](../notes/jenjimah/04-07-2019/horticultural-spectroscope-upgrade-planning)

