---
cid: 23779
node: [Horticultural Spectrometer Upgrade - Planning](../notes/jenjimah/04-07-2019/horticultural-spectroscope-upgrade-planning)
nid: 18991
created_at: 2019-04-09 01:15:43 +0000
timestamp: 1554772543
uid: 505738
author: [jenjimah](../profile/jenjimah)
---

 Hi Dave,
I looked at some of your posts before writing this one, actually! Your work is super helpful.

I also couldn't find IR data from the Sony IMX219 sensor, but I just sent them a message so we'll see if they can give any information when they respond.

On (2) Did you or anyone try comparing the rigid grating (I think the upgrade kit from Public Lab has rigid gratings) vs. the holographic film ones? I tried searching but didn't find anything.

On (3) Solux 4700K seems like a good option for the relative gain. I still would probably want to use the sun for absolute intensity management - perhaps those two combined with CFL for wavelength calibration would give something really nice.

For (5) The diffuser is a common attachment on ambient light spectrometers like [This STS-RAD](https://oceanoptics.com/product/sts-vis-rad/#tab-specifications) from Ocean Optics. This is the type of spectrometer I'm used to using for characterizing LED or sunlight intensity at crop level, i.e. an ambient light spectrometer. The idea is that a leaf receives light from all angles, but not all angles equally (mostly from perpendicular direction to the leaf surface) so the diffuser integrates the light hitting the horizontal plain.

It's possible that the diffuser might negatively affect the resolution, but in the STS-VIS and other spectrometers I believe it really just is the diffusing material hovering a short distance above the slit. Since the lego model already has that tube sticking out, I figured if I put the diffuser over the tube it would be very similar.

Thanks for your comments!
Jasmine




[jenjimah](../profile/jenjimah) replying to: [Horticultural Spectrometer Upgrade - Planning](../notes/jenjimah/04-07-2019/horticultural-spectroscope-upgrade-planning)

