---
node: Horticultural Spectrometer Upgrade - Planning
author: stoft
created_at: 2019-04-09 04:09:51 +0000
timestamp: 1554782991
nid: 18991
cid: 23811
uid: 54025
---



[stoft](../profile/stoft) replying to: [Horticultural Spectrometer Upgrade - Planning](../notes/jenjimah/04-07-2019/horticultural-spectroscope-upgrade-planning)

----
 Jasmin, glad my previous notes were helpful.

I did find one plot for the IMX219, but it was not from Sony and only covered to 700nm. The IMX265 curves do appear to better push the range out past 700. The reason I mention this is that as the response 'tails off' the sensitivity often drops quickly and noise swamps the measurements.

True, the  solar spectra is fairly well characterized. However, there are a few practical difficulties. 1) The shear intensity of sunlight overloads the spectrometer. While neutral density filters can provide attenuation, those filters need their own calibration data (though good ones might be flat enough over 400-800nm -- but again, good response data would be required to know it). 2) Solar spectra changes with a) time of day, b) atmospheric water vapor, c) altitude, d) latitude, etc. so you'd need at least some good reference curves which match your measurement location and environment. The curve differences are significant -- which is why digital camera's have deg-K whit-balance settings ... just to get a simple approximation. Finally, the solar spectra isn't actually flat or smooth (though for a simple spectrometer one can average...) So, a local broadband source, which has spectral data, is rather convenient.

Ok, so you are just wanting to average the received light so the diffuser would both integrate the light and act like a distant source. However, the photons which reach the diffraction grating will still be those whose incident angle is inline with the slit and diffuser; all others will just be scattered in other directions. A typical result (for the PLab web-cam type spectrometers, is reflected-light (reflected off the subject[plant]) being very weak. This is quite different from the 'typical' PLab experiment of looking a absorption by a liquid of light from a direct source. From my own similar experiments, this will likely require a very bright light source and-or (can't use a 'slash' in this on-line editor) get quite close to the plants. This just means some preliminary proof-of-concept experiments for light level. After all, you are interested in only the reflected light, not the source light.

Of course, this raises the question: Could useful information be gleaned from simply extracting RGB hostogram data from a color photo of the plants (and doing the analysis in software...)?

Or, using the spectrometer but looking at a bright light source shining through leaf material -- and integrating many results from many leaf regions? Just other thoughts.

Dave
