---
cid: 23830
node: [Horticultural Spectrometer Upgrade - Planning](../notes/jenjimah/04-07-2019/horticultural-spectroscope-upgrade-planning)
nid: 18991
created_at: 2019-04-09 16:01:52 +0000
timestamp: 1554825712
uid: 54025
author: [stoft](../profile/stoft)
---

 Ah, I've seen the curve on the web but it was not attributed to the specific sensor. It's helpful to now have that information. It looks like the double response from B&G improves the sensitivity out near the IR.

It appears you want to use the sun as an absolute reference for W per M^2 and therefore "calibrate" another (eg LED) light source for intensity. However the sun's distance means that light is uniform over area. A local light source (plant lights) would be quite close so intensity follows the inverse-square law so would not be uniform....

I suspect the Sony sensor is made via an extremely repeatable process such that relative to any simple 'absolute power calibration' based on some known spectrum (eg. solar) a one-time measure (for a single given mechanical configuration of a spectrometer) is all that would be required. I suspect sensors would not vary by much in sensitivity -- though the data sheet should have numbers.

Ok, so your interest in only in the light sources ... so the plants are therefore not part of the measurement. That means you would just perform direct measurements of various light sources -- no reflectance measurements. Right? That simplifies some things.

Characterizing the light applied to the plants could take several forms. Eg: 1) Step-and-repeat the spectrometer over an area of light (for the plants) for a given source and map both average intensity and spectral content, 2) attempt to diffuse via collection of light from a broad area to find an average, 3) if the light is bright enough, place the source at a distance, measure the spectrum (rough diffusion via distance) and the average a few near-field measurements for average intensity.

I'm just guessing here as I'm not visualizing the full concept of your experimental hypothesis, clarity of the required results, the methods to acquire the data or the uncertainty of the measurements (to know the expected limits to the proposed methods). Perhaps these would be good thought experiments to design up-front as a proof of concept. Measurement uncertainties have a way of creeping in and having significant affect on final results.

Dave

[stoft](../profile/stoft) replying to: [Horticultural Spectrometer Upgrade - Planning](../notes/jenjimah/04-07-2019/horticultural-spectroscope-upgrade-planning)

