---
node: MapKnitter Aerial Image labelling to detect Environmental issues using machine vision
author: sauvzi13397
created_at: 2019-04-09 20:36:41 +0000
timestamp: 1554842201
nid: 18950
cid: 23848
uid: 581175
---



[sauvzi13397](../profile/sauvzi13397) replying to: [MapKnitter Aerial Image labelling to detect Environmental issues using machine vision](../notes/sauvzi13397/04-03-2019/mapknitter-aerial-image-labelling-to-detect-environmental-issues-using-machine-vision)

----
Thanks, [@warren](/profile/warren) for your important feedback here, are my answers

1. Re-usability:
DATA: The dataset we are going to create will be independent and we can use again it for any similar task.
MODEL: The model can be integrated into any website with aerial images without even making a change.
FOR IMPROVEMENT: Machine learning and deep learning is very fast paced industries and new researches coming almost every month. even the ResNet model is only 3 years old and everybody using it.
for anybody to improve our model they can use our Dataset which we are creating in our project and test different algorithms and models.
DOCUMENTATION: It is a very important part and I've dedicated almost one week in my timeline only for documentation.
I will well document the whole input-output formate totally on common standards and anyone can swap out and can try any other algorithms or models to improve our system.

2. I have updated the flow-chart and dedicated the community involvement section it.
So, how people will able to see their contribution really making a change?
In our project, the performance metrics we are using is Micro-Averaged F1-Score which will increase proportionally with the increase in the dataset.
It will never decrease because we are using ResNet model and it will skip the training layer if the new data is irrelevant.
I will suggest retraining our model monthly because we required about 5000-10000 tagged images to observe significant changes in our Micro-Averaged F1-Score and accuracy.
so at the end of the month, we can able to analyse it.

3. Yes adding more metadata to OSM will be really helpful because it will increase the quality of the dataset and which will help us to make our model better.
Starting a Map-a-thon will be great.
Zooniverse data is very important because we can transform it as per our requirement.

4. There is no such pathway exists I think because we have to preprocess the data first, to import dataset directly will not be possible yet But, It is a very good idea and we can work on this later.

5. I have updated the flowchart with the community input section.

6. There is no need for its own interface. As the project will be completely integrated inside the existing MapKnitter website interface by using Flask server as we have discussed earlier.
and for testing, we could hack up a quick test interface for the playing with the features.
The model will analyse the images for different forms of pollution and labelled it appropriately and people can use the tags to find similar patterns and pollution on MapKnitter website.

7. Both the flask server and the model can be run inside the docker container that could be added to our current composed setup.

thanks for the questions if there are any doubts I have left unaddressed then feel free to ask them. 

