---
cid: 23908
node: [How are the Q&A's tied together in the website database?](../notes/bsugar/04-15-2019/how-are-the-q-a-s-tied-together-in-the-website-database)
nid: 19064
created_at: 2019-04-16 21:32:06 +0000
timestamp: 1555450326
uid: 217812
author: [bsugar](../profile/bsugar)
---

Oh, I see.  Funny Gaurav (who's PL username I do not know, sorry!) was just talking about this relative to the way people are using the functionality, which can sort of be seen in the data in terms of how people use the top level comment thread and what  sub level thread (responses to a specific comment like this one).  It's interesting in terms of common usage vocabulary.  For example, Quora and Stack Overflow have some how established clarity on when you are submitting an answer and when you are commenting on an answer.  The vocabulary of forums are quite different, and even then a place like Reddit seems to have some how made it the norm to have threads, where I'd say something like GoogleGroups which I believe does have threading capability, has not.  

In any case:

I'll try to see if I can find the issue in Github because I'd love to see how that started and where it's going.

In the end, it seems like I decided to do exactly what you are doing which is to do away with the idea of an "answer" vs. a discussion about an answer and just call everything in the comment thread an answer.

I'm not sure that'll take care of all of the "orphans" since some don't have references back to a question but I'll wait and see if the complete transfer takes care of that.  

[bsugar](../profile/bsugar) replying to: [How are the Q&A's tied together in the website database?](../notes/bsugar/04-15-2019/how-are-the-q-a-s-tied-together-in-the-website-database)

