---
cid: 23924
node: [Would it be possible to make our own microscopic scale rulers (micrometers) using optical discs (DVDs?)](../notes/warren/04-17-2019/would-it-be-possible-to-make-our-own-microscopic-scale-rulers-micrometers-using-optical-discs-dvds)
nid: 19091
created_at: 2019-04-17 22:23:59 +0000
timestamp: 1555539839
uid: 237313
author: [Bronwen](../profile/Bronwen)
---

Oh cool, this is a super interesting question. 

I think this would be tricky to do at the scale that our calibration slides currently have (the ruler at 1mm with .01mm/10 micron lines)-- lasers have a kerf (the amount of material that they vaporize), and as far as I can tell, it's usually not TOO much less than .1mm/100 microns, but I've also never tried for anything that thin before!

The exact width of the kerf can be affected by a bunch of ambient and hard to control-for factors (at least at the scale we're talking about).. when I'm working on something that needs to be really small and perfect I plan on at least a little bit of drift/warp and do a lot of tinkering with power/frequency/vector sorting and placement of the material on the bed. 

Now I'm actually kind of wondering if the frequency setting ON ITS OWN could be used to put down points at useful intervals-- whatever is just slightly less than continuous. 

I know this is a minor thing given the scale of the etching, but not all lasers are great to used with mirrored material,  and polycarbonate (which is in CD's and DVD) is one of those materials that seems to be on a "maybe ok depending on the laser" list-- there are some issues with health/exposure and with the way that a reflective surface can bounce things around. From the Epilog site, it looks like polycarbonate is etchable with fiber lasers but not recommended for CO2 lasers, but I'd want to dive into that a little more, because I'm not sure I understand what layers contain what materials (and materials lists are never as comprehensive as you want them to be), though for etching we'd only really need to worry about the topmost layer (we'd want to consider the material more carefully if we're cutting). 

When you said you were thinking about splitting the DVD in half, do you mean to split apart the layers, like we do with the spectrometer, or something else?

Either way, I am super intrigued by this idea. I've got some laser time booked this weekend, so I might try this on a scrap of acrylic and a regular blank glass slide to see how fine a line I can achieve! 

[Bronwen](../profile/Bronwen) replying to: [Would it be possible to make our own microscopic scale rulers (micrometers) using optical discs (DVDs?)](../notes/warren/04-17-2019/would-it-be-possible-to-make-our-own-microscopic-scale-rulers-micrometers-using-optical-discs-dvds)

