---
node: SoC proposal: Image Sequencer: Broadening Avenues
author: vibhordelgupta
created_at: 2019-04-21 14:13:32 +0000
timestamp: 1555856012
nid: 19010
cid: 23958
uid: 568180
---



[vibhordelgupta](../profile/vibhordelgupta) replying to: [SoC proposal: Image Sequencer: Broadening Avenues](../notes/vibhordelgupta/04-09-2019/soc-proposal-image-sequencer-broadening-avenues)

----
[@jywarren](/profile/jywarren) Thanks a ton for the substantive feedback!

About the changes, here is what I have in mind:

1. Regarding the UI testing harness, I had the following in mind:

   a. Specific tests: Providing custom input (to test suite) and checking the output image against a benchmark and also that it should render inside the step div, probably a test for loading images from device (whether it is too large/small - re: image preview optimisation discussed later), saving sequences triggers appropriate modals etc.

    b. General tests: Buttons are rendered and are active/inactive based on events, fields are displayed, basic step UI is rendered correctly, menus are displayed correctly etc.

2. About standardised CLI testing, we could refactor them inside `test/core` into three folders: `modules` (already exists), `cli` and `browser`

     a. As of now, there is just one test for cli (that too a unit test for a utility cli employs, not an actual cli test) in an independent file and all other tests inside modules folder. I am thinking, individual module tests (which exist as js files with the module as their name eg. `brightness.js`). The idea is to move all such files inside modules, which takes care of individual module tests in the node environment.

     b. Next, a cli folder to actually test the CLI commands; their error fallbacks and success responses. All this, along with tests for CLI utils, goes inside this folder. https://bit.ly/2Zoft0C is a great resource and a reference point for writing CLI tests for node. This will take care of testing CLI behaviour (since modules are already being tested in node environment).

     c. Lastly, a browser folder which contains all the current tests which are browserified, like the image-sequencer and benchmark suites which test for performance in a browser environment.

3. For optimisations of preview generations:

      a. For starters, we could display a warning sign (like you suggested in [#922](https://github.com/publiclab/image-sequencer/issues/922) )

      b. We could set a limit of the image resolution/size and make it known to the user. If the image exceeds, we could compress it for preview generation purposes, and the single compressed image could be served to all the quick-add steps.

      c. We could probably employ Javascript web workers for the aforementioned implementation, wherein the entire compression is working in another thread to prevent stalling of the app. Although, any actual improvement in performance would have to be experimented upon by hit and trial.

      d. Lastly, we could look into resize module optimisations. (Hopefully webassembly on pixel manipulation will already be optimised enough)

4. For UI refactoring, I came up with the following architecture: A folder called UI in the root of the project having folder like so - 

       a. Dom: Contains all the html templates that are now written inside default step UI files and returns them. This can be required where ever required. Keeps the javascript and html separate. Also contains preview functionality, and probably functions for initialising different types of input (range, number etc) to be called whenever a step is initialised.

       b. Sequencer: Contains `defaultHtmlSequencerUi.js` code (all the JS, no HTML; it will be required from the Dom folder), the `gifshot` code, the `saveSequence` code and the url hashing utils.

       c. Step: Contains the default and intermediate HTML step UI code (the JS part).



Apologies for the delayed response, my exams are catching up :D Also, since the webgl-distort and fisheyegl part is up and running, might I take the liberty to go ahead and modify my deliverables a bit? I think I will have a couple of spare weeks now which can be utilised for all the above suggestions and including webpack in the project. Thanks, once again, for the feedback!
cc [@tech4gt](/profile/tech4gt)
