---
cid: 23997
node: [GSoD : System diagram and Roadmap for Plots2](../notes/bansal_sidharth2996/04-22-2019/gsod-system-diagram-and-roadmap-for-plots2)
nid: 19140
created_at: 2019-04-29 18:25:13 +0000
timestamp: 1556562313
uid: 503599
author: [bansal_sidharth2996](../profile/bansal_sidharth2996)
---

 [@warren](/profile/warren) I will like to define some of the basic terminologies I will be using in the proposal.

Actor: Actor is the person who interacts with the system. At Public Lab, we define actors with the help 
of roles and status. Here at Public Lab, the actor is classified into normal user, moderator and admin.

Flow: The sequence of events which occurs in the execution of a particular functionality is termed as a flow. Flows are of two types:
Basic Flow: When everything works as expected then it is basic flow. For example, the user trying to login to the system logs into the system with consistent database state.
Alternate Flow: When there is a deviation from the basic flow. Example: Username entered doesn’t exist in the database or password-username mismatch etc.

System Diagrams are used to define the system or software. So, they define the whole system with all its models, controllers, views and data flows.  

Traditional diagrams involves ER diagrams, Data Flow Diagrams, Context Diagrams, Use Case Scenario etc. while the Object Oriented Diagrams involves the Unified Modelling Language based models like Class diagram, Object diagrams, Interaction diagrams, Activity Diagrams, State Chart diagrams, etc. I have explained all of these in detail as follows:

Class Diagrams: We classify the system to have model entities, view entities, controller entities, interface entities and the actors. We define all the entities present in the flows diagrammatically in a single diagram while considering the MVC pattern. As these diagrams list all the entities, they are generally of chart paper size or more.
Benefit: Exact sequence of events is explored with the help of diagrams
Drawback: Listing all the flows for the whole system in a single diagram results in a very huge unmaintainable diagram. 

Object Diagrams: Object diagram is a more detailed class diagram with the object passing between the various functions, programs and routines. They are made in tabular fashion with formal arguments and calling functions and modules. It has a similar drawback as the class diagram of its size.
Sequence Diagrams: When we jot down all the flows present in the class diagram with the entities with the timely sequence of calling of the events, then it is termed as the sequence diagram. A single MVC component of the class diagram will have many sequence diagrams. So, it is a much more detailed version of the class diagram. It is dynamic in nature as it is time dependent. As it represents all the flows, they are highly unmaintainable.

State Chart Diagrams: involves the change of state of various variables which execution of a module. Example not_logged_in to logged_in on calling the user_session_controller. These diagrams are also very large in number and hence unmaintainable.

Activity Diagrams: They represent flow in the flow chart format. They are also unmaintainable and large in number when created for the whole system.

Data Flow Diagrams: Data Flow Diagrams in short DFDs, represents the flow of the data between various data models. They are made at different levels of detail like 0 level DFD, 1 level DFD and so on. Simplest DFD is 0 level DFD which are also called Context Diagrams.

Entity Relationship Diagrams: Schema of the database is represented in the form of entity and relationships. These diagrams are at database level and doesn’t have to do with the execution of MVC pattern.

Use Case Scenarios: This lists the actors with all the subsystems in diagrammatic format. They are easy to maintain.

As far as my knowledge, it will be best to draw the Data Flow Diagram at the 0 Level( aka Context Diagrams), Use Case Scenario OR ER diagrams.

We can modify the current DFD also. The diagram will have documentation under it so that collaborators can quickly grasp plots2.


[bansal_sidharth2996](../profile/bansal_sidharth2996) replying to: [GSoD : System diagram and Roadmap for Plots2](../notes/bansal_sidharth2996/04-22-2019/gsod-system-diagram-and-roadmap-for-plots2)

