---
cid: 24100
node: [GSoC proposal: Mapknitter ORB Descriptor (w/ auto-stitching, pattern training, and live video support) and LDI revamp (major UI enhancements)](../notes/rexagod/03-11-2019/gsoc-proposal-mapknitter-orb-descriptor-w-auto-stitching-pattern-training-and-live-video-support-and-ldi-revamp-major-ui-enhancements)
nid: 18515
created_at: 2019-05-10 02:52:12 +0000
timestamp: 1557456732
uid: 421556
author: [justinmanley](../profile/justinmanley)
---

> aligning the larger image according to anyone of those two (based on their EXIF metadata) would automatically align to the other one too

Cool! It sounds like you've given this some thought. I suspect that this question will still be worth investigating, since EXIF data may be imprecise and/or noisy (e.g. I assume that the location in the EXIF data for images taken with a cellphone will only be as precise as the phone's GPS, which often is accurate within 5-10m). Using the EXIF data from all of the stitched images together may help improve overall accuracy. There's a lot that can be done here -- lots of ways to combine EXIF + image data across images + layers to improve overall accuracy. It's a good thing to be thinking about now, but I think you're correct to defer further investigation until later + look for a solution which is "good enough" (rather than perfect).

Thanks very much for the fabulous performance analysis. You resolved almost all of my questions about client-side image-stitching performance! I have only a few remaining questions, all related: (1) what is the range of image sizes typically uploaded to MapKnitter? (2) what does in-browser performance look like for images at the 50th and 90th size percentiles? If performance is good at the 50th percentile, but poor at the 90th percentile, it might be worth adding a warning to the UI when users try to auto-stitch large images. Image size is relevant because I would expect that stitching performance might scale with O(mn^2) or worse for m x n images. No need to do a detailed analysis now, but it would be useful to understand how image size affects performance in order to understand how different MapKnitter users will experience this feature.

Thanks again for the great performance investigation. Your analysis is thorough, and the improvements you suggest are relevant and actionable! Awesome work :)

[justinmanley](../profile/justinmanley) replying to: [GSoC proposal: Mapknitter ORB Descriptor (w/ auto-stitching, pattern training, and live video support) and LDI revamp (major UI enhancements)](../notes/rexagod/03-11-2019/gsoc-proposal-mapknitter-orb-descriptor-w-auto-stitching-pattern-training-and-live-video-support-and-ldi-revamp-major-ui-enhancements)

