---
node: SOC 2019:  A small proposal for global environmental monitoring 
author: MaggPi
created_at: 2019-05-13 01:03:15 +0000
timestamp: 1557709395
nid: 18907
cid: 24124
uid: 501996
---



[MaggPi](../profile/MaggPi) replying to: [SOC 2019:  A small proposal for global environmental monitoring ](../notes/MaggPi/03-30-2019/soc-2019-a-small-proposal-for-global-environmental-monitoring)

----
 Hi everyone, 
Just want to say thank you to my mentors   ([@warren](/profile/warren) ,   [@gauravano](/profile/gauravano) , [@sagarpreet](/profile/sagarpreet) ) for agreeing to help in GSOC 2019!   Also, would like to introduce myself to the other Image sequencer developers ( [@aashnaaashna](/profile/aashnaaashna)  , [@lit2017001](/profile/lit2017001) ) and their mentors ([@Harshith](/profile/Harshith) and [@jainaman224](/profile/jainaman224) ).

A project comparison spreadsheet is available at ,  https://github.com/MargaretAN9/GSOC-2019

or copy and past the direct link   https://github.com/MargaretAN9/GSOC-2019/blob/master/Comparison%20matrix%20Public%20Lab%20GSoC%20Outreachy%202019%20v1%20(1).xlsx  .


 I did this to see if there are  common trends across the different programs.       If you think there are other program connections please feel free to update the matrix.  

One common theme is opencv.   Asshna’s and my project directly depend on opencv and Divy’s project may also benefit  from colorspace conversion typically used  in color comparisons.

So, does anyone have ideas  on the best way to add opencv to Image sequencer?   My first thought would to try to add opencv.js as a new module to Image  Sequencer?     Since this  would be a very  big module I suspect that another approach would work better. 

 There is  also the issue   that some image sequencer  modules may duplicate open. cv functions (see https://github.com/opencv/opencv/blob/master/modules/js/src/embindgen.py#L82-L171  for list of opencv functions).  Not sure if this is a bad thing but it may mean that we don’t need to include all opencv functions or some of the  inconsistent   IS modules (see Warren’s ‘crop’  comments above) would be replaced by opencv? 

I am very interested in how opencv is added to IS since I assume a similar approach can also be used for GDAL.   (GDAL is a sort of open.cv for GEOTIFF satellite images). 
