---
cid: 24248
node: [Draft of a Public Lab Software Roadmap: Comments welcome!](../notes/warren/05-22-2019/draft-of-a-public-lab-software-roadmap-comments-welcome)
nid: 19494
created_at: 2019-05-25 13:20:07 +0000
timestamp: 1558790407
uid: 515081
author: [gauravano](../profile/gauravano)
---

 Hi Jeff, great post. 

 - Allow rewrites of site functions (like in React, which was a popular idea this year)... only? ...if they come with good (system?) tests

Wow! Excited to see this ðŸ˜ƒ. 

 - Identify and rally contributors towards "big projects" we're trying to complete and recruit help on (rather than starting new projects?) to start to complete them and reduce our "technical debt" (is this a good frame? https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Technical_debt)

ðŸ‘ +1 ðŸ™Œ 

 - Encourage ppl to choose a segment of the code to specialize in (add your name to a group?) to build longer-term institutional memory and capacity to maintain the codebase (not sure about this one? Would love input!)

Agree on this. I think it's essential to specialize in any one of the repo as only then one can experience the different roles and can constantly keep on taking bigger challenges. 

Newcomer --> Contributor --> Reviewer --> Maintainer --> Maintainer + Time to explore new repo and specialize in that ðŸ˜ƒ 

Also, one can contribute to/review/maintain multiple repos at a time . It depends on person to person, how much time one has, the motivation behind contribution, etc. 

yes, how to get involved section can be expanded. We can actually summarize it in steps like: 
 - If you are new to Public Lab then try `first-timers-only` issue from https://code.publiclab.org 
 - We only allow a newcomer to solve one issue but if you're still confused about GitHub flow and how things are working, then we can make an exception. If you got things clear, then proceed to the next step.
 - Undertake `fto-candidate` issue or `help-wanted` issue, they maybe a bit complex but you can definitely expect help from us.
 - You can undertake more issues at this stage of your Open Source journey with Public Lab. Also, you can consider creating an FTO issue for a newcomer and help someone start their OSS journey ðŸŽ‰.
 - Moving ahead, you can take on challenging tasks, review PRs of other contributors and much more. You can also volunteer to be part of the Reviewers' team by commenting on an issue like this - https://github.com/publiclab/mapknitter/issues/634.
 - Keep on contributing, be an impact and get yourself maintainer authorization (needs more clarity!)


Thanks!!!! And, really love the note's image. You remember, there's an issue - https://github.com/publiclab/plots2/issues/4880 open for that ðŸ˜ƒ. 

 

[gauravano](../profile/gauravano) replying to: [Draft of a Public Lab Software Roadmap: Comments welcome!](../notes/warren/05-22-2019/draft-of-a-public-lab-software-roadmap-comments-welcome)

