---
cid: 24294
node: [Prepare an SD card for a Raspberry Pi camera from scratch](../notes/warren/04-20-2018/prepare-an-sd-card-for-a-raspberry-pi-camera-from-scratch)
nid: 16180
created_at: 2019-05-30 04:50:45 +0000
timestamp: 1559191845
uid: 505738
author: [jenjimah](../profile/jenjimah)
---

 Hi Warren,
Sure I'd be happy to try to add that in, it's only 2 files that need to be updated after all. However before that, there are a few things that I have to double check with you. When I set up my pi as a ethernet gadget, it was no longer able to access the wifi network. Apparently, after being configured as an ethernet gadget, I was only able to get the pi to access internet through my laptop over the usb "ethernet" cable. So I don't think the Wifi and USB setup are mutually compatible. I think it's possible to have 2 pi-builder versions (one for wifi, one for USB) but do you think that's making things too complex? Or maybe I missed something and it really is possible to have both Wifi and ethernet simultaneously?

Another thing is that when I connected with USB, I had to first SSH into the pi, and then there were a few extra steps to connect to the internet network through my laptop - I'm not sure if this can be done automatically. With that said, if the IP camera program is already pre-installed, I'm pretty sure you don't need internet for it to work. It was only necessary to install the IP camera program.

I definitely like the way I've got mine set up though (with USB-connection, internet access through my computer, and SSH capability) but I think only the USB and SSH access part can be automated (at least from my understanding). Also - is enabling the SSH something that pi-builder includes or is it discouraged for being a security risk? Again I guess SSH is not strictly necessary to be able to access the camera.

As a side note, I do assume the USB method is faster than Wifi - I don't notice much of a lag from the camera to my computer.

[jenjimah](../profile/jenjimah) replying to: [Prepare an SD card for a Raspberry Pi camera from scratch](../notes/warren/04-20-2018/prepare-an-sd-card-for-a-raspberry-pi-camera-from-scratch)

