---
node: A Method for HDR Imaging
author: stoft
created_at: 2019-06-13 04:04:00 +0000
timestamp: 1560398640
nid: 19682
cid: 24778
uid: 54025
---



[stoft](../profile/stoft) replying to: [A Method for HDR Imaging](../notes/jenjimah/06-12-2019/a-method-for-hdr-imaging)

----
 Right, the camera's do automate as much as possible, which works against the needs of spectrometers. If the AGC cannot be shut off, then it becomes very difficult to make intensity measurements (even relative intensity) because the chip is intrinsically modifying the gain without knowing when or by how much.

In a simplistic way, it is easy to see the spectral curve change level with a change in source light -- even with an AGC. That is usually because the adjustment range of the AGC is limited to less than the sensor's dynamic range. However, when looking for small intensity changes, the data will be a mix of effects of both the AGC (which is typically based on average 'scene' intensity) and real changes in input light intensity. They are co-mingled and not easily separated.

I believe that an intensity correction curve is only possible if the gain can be controlled. I was not sure by the above description if the python code had some interface for the PI camera for switching the AGC off and for controlling the gain. Might look for that and/or do a bit of web search on controlling those parameters in the PI camera. Sometimes camera chips have the option but the chip interface card does not allow them to be programmed. Some cameras do.
