---
node: A Method for HDR Imaging
author: stoft
created_at: 2019-06-13 02:32:56 +0000
timestamp: 1560393176
nid: 19682
cid: 24775
uid: 54025
---



[stoft](../profile/stoft) replying to: [A Method for HDR Imaging](../notes/jenjimah/06-12-2019/a-method-for-hdr-imaging)

----
 Good work and observations. Yes, I think HDR techniques can help extract additional dynamic range from these simple cameras. In reading through your notes I'm also wondering about some fundamentals which I'd noticed in my own experiments. Web-Cams are designed and optimized for taking images of 'world scenes' not spectra from diffraction gratings and so they tend not to react 'nicely' to such input. I suspect the Pi camera is much like other 'web cams' since they are all based on similar sensor chip technology.

The cameras have internal AGC loops (Automatic Gain Control) which seek to 'level' the analog gain in ALL pixel elements based on an overall image intensity average. This makes the camera output both a function of the specific 'scene' and a function of an active loop with an unknown, and even variable, loop bandwidth (rate of correction).

With one camera I used + a matlab interface, I was able to shut off the AGC and set a fixed image gain. At that point, the camera's response was quite linear (for such a simple detector) ..... but with AGC running, the camera did appear to be non-linear -- and difficult to control. (This can appear as instability in the spectral intensity over time -- which most tend to just average out, but which really shows as a significant intensity error value to the final data.)

The other factor, once the gain is fixed, is handling 1) the gain step size (another calibration) and 2) noise which tends to increase as the gain increases (a limit to the range of an effective HDR).

So, I'm just suggesting that it would be good to know if the observed non-linearity is a result of an active AGC loop. If it is, then the 'correction' could be further complicated by not having control over the specific range of the AGC's operation -- which is, in turn,  a function of the image detail being observed (a variety of spectra with variable average intensities). True, extracting accurate data is not terribly straight-forward ;-)
