---
cid: 24783
node: [A Method for HDR Imaging](../notes/jenjimah/06-12-2019/a-method-for-hdr-imaging)
nid: 19682
created_at: 2019-06-13 08:44:40 +0000
timestamp: 1560415480
uid: 54025
author: [stoft](../profile/stoft)
---

From that link, I found a 'settings' file here:

https://gitlab.com/bath_open_instrumentation_group/picamera_cra_compensation/blob/fdb98308149e686ac539db8e411bf2d2eafa9b0c/data/monitor_and_50mm_lens/neopixel_jig/camera_settings.yaml

which appears to set the camera: analog gain, white-balance, digital gain, exposure off, some 'state' settings, etc.

However, a quick web search found the picamera docs:

https://picamera.readthedocs.io/en/release-1.13/fov.html

which describe setting the exposure to off to stop the auto-gain adjust ... so there do appear to be some useful controls.

Just a thought: Using other's code 'packages' can have the pitfall of not having process control that is well understood. So, one suggestion is to write some new basic camera control code, in python if you like, which 1) does the camera setup, 2) controls the cam to get images, 3) extracts a set of 'pixel lines' through a spectra and 4) manipulates that data to construct the three R/G/B spectral raw data arrays. That is the root information you can and need to control. Most all remaining code is thus just requesting spectra (via your root code) and manipulating the resulting extracted raw RGB data. Some 'package' from the web is thus just a utility to try out (though you might have to isolate their core feature you want so as to integrate it onto your code). This helps isolate the functionalities, validate the basic camera-spectra building blocks and to know precisely how the data was obtained, its accuracy and its error limits. Just a thought ...




[stoft](../profile/stoft) replying to: [A Method for HDR Imaging](../notes/jenjimah/06-12-2019/a-method-for-hdr-imaging)

