---
cid: 24793
node: [A Method for HDR Imaging](../notes/jenjimah/06-12-2019/a-method-for-hdr-imaging)
nid: 19682
created_at: 2019-06-13 18:25:48 +0000
timestamp: 1560450348
uid: 54025
author: [stoft](../profile/stoft)
---

 Yes, once the camera exposure is under control (and fixed value) then the linearity can be measured -- IF you have controlled means of adjusting the input light level (eg. say a neutral density filter of known attenuation, then  use N=1,2,3,4... filters). Mapping of gain settings to output level could be done after that.

On capturing image data: Yes, extracting entire images is a waste of bandwidth. I'd suggest doing 2 steps: 1) extract a 'band' of image lines (eg. 16) that are 'centered' in on the spectrum, then 2) operate on that line data to extract a single spectrum.

The second step is important because just any single pixel line will include camera noise, optical errors from having discrete lines of pixels and the uncertainties of the mechanical stability of the spectrometer. I found that the 'peak' data response for a spectra generally never aligned with any single line of pixels. (Recall that the pixel sensor areas are small physical areas, separated from each other, so it is an array of 'spot-points'; not contiguous detection areas. So, the step [#2](/n/2) gives room for an algorithm to process a set of parallel pixel lines in an adaptive way prior to any other processing (which will be assuming the spectrum is accurate). I published notes on a number of related techniques which might give some helpful ideas.

[stoft](../profile/stoft) replying to: [A Method for HDR Imaging](../notes/jenjimah/06-12-2019/a-method-for-hdr-imaging)

