---
node: Image Sequencer on Raspberry PI
author: MaggPi
created_at: 2019-06-15 04:33:27 +0000
timestamp: 1560573207
nid: 16060
cid: 24798
uid: 501996
---



[MaggPi](../profile/MaggPi) replying to: [Image Sequencer on Raspberry PI](../notes/tech4gt/04-03-2018/image-sequencer-on-raspberry-pi)

----
I did this! but I seem to get an access error.  Is there a permission necessary? Thank You



pi@raspberrypi:~ $ npm install -g image-sequencer
npm WARN deprecated istanbul@0.4.5: This module is no longer maintained, try this instead:
npm WARN deprecated   npm i nyc
npm WARN deprecated Visit https://istanbul.js.org/integrations for other alternatives.
npm WARN checkPermissions Missing write access to /usr/lib/node_modules
npm ERR! path /usr/lib/node_modules
npm ERR! code EACCES
npm ERR! errno -13
npm ERR! syscall access
npm ERR! Error: EACCES: permission denied, access '/usr/lib/node_modules'
npm ERR!  { [Error: EACCES: permission denied, access '/usr/lib/node_modules']
npm ERR!   stack:
npm ERR!    'Error: EACCES: permission denied, access \'/usr/lib/node_modules\'',
npm ERR!   errno: -13,
npm ERR!   code: 'EACCES',
npm ERR!   syscall: 'access',
npm ERR!   path: '/usr/lib/node_modules' }
npm ERR! 
npm ERR! The operation was rejected by your operating system.
npm ERR! It is likely you do not have the permissions to access this file as the current user
npm ERR! 
npm ERR! If you believe this might be a permissions issue, please double-check the
npm ERR! permissions of the file and its containing directories, or try running
npm ERR! the command again as root/Administrator (though this is not recommended).

npm ERR! A complete log of this run can be found in:
npm ERR!     /home/pi/.npm/_logs/2019-06-15T04_18_19_764Z-debug.log