---
node: What are indoor air quality concerns related to nail salons? 
author: silentsairam
created_at: 2019-07-26 09:56:33 +0000
timestamp: 1564134993
nid: 20310
cid: 25142
uid: 553044
---



[silentsairam](../profile/silentsairam) replying to: [What are indoor air quality concerns related to nail salons? ](../notes/stevie/07-25-2019/what-are-indoor-air-quality-concerns-related-to-nail-salons)

----
This Research I did way back in 2018 and guess it might help you as well.

We all go to Parlour, Saloon once_(sometimes more than twice)_ every month and let us be aware of how the chemicals we affect our immune system. The business of beauty parlour has played a major role in generating employment for many people all over the world, and in India. In order to remain profitable and successful, this growing business needs to meet and maintain high standards of hygiene, health and safety, so that no risk is posed to the customers and workers. Parlour workers, a population dominated by women, are exposed to a myriad of chemicals of concern every day in their workplaces.

**Sources & Causes:**
Hair sprays, hair colours, bleaches, permanent waves, acrylic nail application, and numerous other parlour products contain ingredients associated with asthma, dermatitis, neurological symptoms and even cancer. Cosmetologists may be exposed to high concentrations of a mixture of volatile organic compounds. 
These levels of volatile organic compounds could be decreased significantly by following good practices such as appropriate ventilation of the areas, closing the packages of the beauty products when not in use and finally selecting safer beauty products without strong odour. 

**Concern pollutants:**  Acetone, Benzene, Dibutyl phthalate, Ethyl acetate, Fibreglass, Formaldehyde, Titanium dioxide, Toluene, Volatile organic compounds (VOCs). Exposure to some artificial nail products, such as ethyl methacrylate, can cause asthma. Ethyl methacrylate is commonly used as an alternative to methyl methacrylate monomer. 

**Investigate Activity to understand Various pollutants in Parlour:**
Conduct an audit in any Parlour of your own and research on Chemical they use, chemical odour, ventilation and come up with ideas/solutions.

##Solution: +1:
Windows and Doors ventilation so that fresh air gets circulated, Use of Natural handmade products(chemical-free), Masks(not a good thing, but can help to a certain extent in not inhaling VOCs), Proper and safe disposal of all used products. Plastic-free and No Tissue papers, Wipes etc too as the tiny particles enter the nose and cause discomfort in breathing.

Source :
(PDF) Indoor Air Quality of Beauty Parlours and Salons. Available from: https://www.researchgate.net/publication/319329016_Indoor_Air_Quality_of_Beauty_Parlours_and_Salons [accessed Jul 09 2018]. 
https://link.springer.com/article/10.1186/s12995-018-0213-x
