---
cid: 25500
node: [Collecting data about Stormwater Issues through Citizen Science](../notes/panicpuri/09-12-2019/collecting-data-about-stormwater-issues-through-citizen-science)
nid: 20842
created_at: 2019-09-12 16:19:32 +0000
timestamp: 1568305172
uid: 554
author: [cfastie](../profile/cfastie)
---

It looks like you have made a really good start with this project. I agree that a challenge will be to avoid scaring away the neighborhood residents with unwieldy electronics. One approach might be to start small with a simple device that meets a subset of your goals. 

For example, if you wanted to start with a system that:  
1. had to be plugged into house power (extension cord into a backyard)  
2. measured only air temperature, soil temperature, humidity, barometric pressure, light level, and maybe a few others   
3. sent its data to the web via home Wi-Fi 

this could be done for less than $10.00. [See this note](https://publiclab.org/notes/cfastie/01-10-2019/what-would-you-do-with-sensorship) for the basic approach using an ESP8266. This approach could be especially attractive to users with smart phones who could see their backyard data in real time on a phone app. 

If it is critical that the devices be powered by battery, the above approach will have to be modified so that the device either turns off between data readings or is put into a sleep state. This is probably possible, but I have not figured that part out yet with the above hardware. So another approach is a device which saves data to SD card (no web connection) but can run on batteries for a year. [This device](https://publiclab.org/wiki/mini-pearl-logger) is based on an Arduino Pro Mini and TPL5110 timer. 

Achieving your goal of a device which can last for weeks or months on batteries, sends its data to the web, and can run a Plantower dust sensor (which needs 5 volts) requires a more sophisticated solution. Such solutions are available but add a new level of complexity. 

Chris


[cfastie](../profile/cfastie) replying to: [Collecting data about Stormwater Issues through Citizen Science](../notes/panicpuri/09-12-2019/collecting-data-about-stormwater-issues-through-citizen-science)

