---
cid: 25567
node: [Prototyping with Raspberry Pi and Arduino](../notes/limako/09-17-2019/prototyping-with-raspberry-pi-and-arduino)
nid: 20899
created_at: 2019-09-23 13:08:37 +0000
timestamp: 1569244117
uid: 546871
author: [limako](../profile/limako)
---

Thank you, [@cfastie](/profile/cfastie), for your thoughtful questions.

I think Arduinos and Pis represent two useful ecosystems for building instruments/data loggers and it's useful for students to learn both. The Arduino is great for low-power, single-threaded applications especially where you need analog inputs. But it doesn't come with any way to record or transmit data -- or even a clock to know when data are collected. A Raspberry Pi needs more power and isn't single-threaded, but it comes with a network stack and can use it to keep a clock set correctly and to transmit data. And, although it doesn't have analog inputs, it can connect to digital sensors over serial interfaces. So it's probably worth having some familiarity with both ecosystems.

I see several advantages to learning the command line. In part, it's a lowest-common denominator. It requires a much smaller operating-system footprint and uses much less memory of the device. You can easily interact with it securely over the network -- even over a slow or unreliable connection. And if something isn't working correctly, the command line, via single user, may be your last, best chance to fix things or recover data.

I also see it as a way to manage the complexity of BYOD student computers. Students bring a vast array of different kinds and ages of computers. Having students only require an ssh connection from their computer to do all of their programming means that they can do the programming anywhere, they don't need display hardware or keyboards for the Raspberry Pi. (This summer, I spent hours helping a student set up a workflow to program an Adafruit Feather using an HP laptop that had weird, platform-specific issues.)

We've used Raspberry Pis a lot for instruments and data loggers that can be plugged into power and have ethernet because it simplifies getting data in and out. And you can log in remotely to check functionality and make adjustments. Not having to go touch devices is wonderful. And I believe that a lot of instruments students will make for the course will be laboratory instruments -- or, at least, will be accessible over the network.

So, "Is there a valid justification for subjecting students to the command line?" Well, I think so. I've taught any number of students over the years who had told me that one of the most useful things they learned from me was to become facile with the command line: that it opened doors and possibilities that they hadn't realized were there. The command line, far from being "that blinking cursor where you must enter a precise and inscrutable string of characters" is language: a nuanced and flexible way to specify and capture what you want the computer to do. A GUI, by comparison, is a kind of cave-man interface: point and grunt, point and grunt, point and grunt. :-)

Thanks again for your questions! I look forward to continuing the dialog!

[limako](../profile/limako) replying to: [Prototyping with Raspberry Pi and Arduino](../notes/limako/09-17-2019/prototyping-with-raspberry-pi-and-arduino)

