---
node: Prototyping with Raspberry Pi and Arduino
author: cfastie
created_at: 2019-09-22 00:14:07 +0000
timestamp: 1569111247
nid: 20899
cid: 25562
uid: 554
---



[cfastie](../profile/cfastie) replying to: [Prototyping with Raspberry Pi and Arduino](../notes/limako/09-17-2019/prototyping-with-raspberry-pi-and-arduino)

----
I’m intrigued by the idea that students should “learn the foundational skills with the command line that, in the long run, will make it much easier to support and interact with their instruments.” I haven’t used the command line much since the 1980s when some clever developments (the mouse, the graphical user interface) made computing accessible to everyone precisely because using the command line was no longer necessary. (The command line is that blinking cursor where you must enter a precise and inscrutable string of characters [the command] to tell a computer what to do next.)

What are the advantages of using the command line? Developing with Arduino does not require use of the command line. Much open science instrumentation has been created in the Arduino environment and the spiffy code editor and debugger in the Arduino IDE seems like a good place for students to start supporting their open science hardware.

The Raspberry Pi has processing capabilities in excess of Arduinos and is generally supported via a command line interface. If a particular project requires the power of a Raspberry Pi then the command line might be the only option. I consider this to be a serious obstacle to adopting the Raspberry Pi and have never used one. This has not obviously restricted my development of open science hardware that is described in my [fifty-some notes at Public Lab about Arduino](https://publiclab.org/tag/arduino/author/cfastie). Using a Raspberry Pi to program an Arduino seems like adding a layer of unneeded complexity (the R Pi) in order to produce an Arduino-based device.

Is there a valid justification for subjecting students to the command line? What type of open science instrumentation requires a Raspberry Pi instead of an Arduino? How much will open science instrumentation be limited by eschewing the command line?

Chris
