---
cid: 25575
node: [What water quality data can we collect to investigate oil/gas pollution?](../notes/wmacfarl/09-18-2019/what-water-quality-data-can-we-collect-to-investigate-oil-gas-pollution)
nid: 20919
created_at: 2019-09-24 17:09:28 +0000
timestamp: 1569344968
uid: 424597
author: [wmacfarl](../profile/wmacfarl)
---

Thanks!

It seems like one of the best indicators for oil in water is just visual inspection for an oil sheen (and photography for documentation)?

Apart from that, it looks to me like methods for directly measuring for oil in water require some combination of spectrometry and lab chemistry?  But there are lots of indirect potential indicators including pH, dissolved oxygen, and salinity/conductivity that are probably worth monitoring for oil/gas related pollution?

from: http://www.bioline.org.br/request?ja04029
"Aquatic oil pollution impact indicators such as oil-grease, low dissolved oxygen concentration, increased biochemical oxygen demand, increased water temperature and acidity of the water are associated with aquatic habitat degradation, reduced productivity and or loss of biodiversity. These impact indicators are interrelated and connected in a chain reaction that a severe shift in any of the parameters will induce negative changes in others. For instance, introduction of significant quantities of crude oil into the aquatic ecosystem will cause increase in biochemical oxygen demand, reduction in dissolved oxygen concentration, increased temperature and pH of the water body"

AND
from: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/28238329
"In 2009, the container ship Colombo Queen and the oil tanker W-O BUDMO grounded off Jialeshui and Houwan, respectively, in southern Taiwan. Water quality was monitored at each site to evaluate the environmental impact caused by the resulting oil spills. The results show that the PAHs, turbidity, and other nutrients increased shortly after oil spill, however levels of these parameters eventually returned to baseline levels. On the other hand, DO saturation, pH and chl. a decreased initially, reached maxima after 10days, and returned to the baseline levels after 14days"

I think I'll write another, more specific question about these other measures!



[wmacfarl](../profile/wmacfarl) replying to: [What water quality data can we collect to investigate oil/gas pollution?](../notes/wmacfarl/09-18-2019/what-water-quality-data-can-we-collect-to-investigate-oil-gas-pollution)

