---
cid: 25571
node: [SPS30 instead of PlanTower units?](../notes/subir/09-23-2019/sps30-instead-of-plantower-units)
nid: 20963
created_at: 2019-09-24 11:26:48 +0000
timestamp: 1569324408
uid: 424197
author: [guolivar](../profile/guolivar)
---

First, I haven't used the SPS30 so can't comment on specifics for those sensors.
However, I have many years of experience working with aerosol measurements and I have worked with the Plantower units for several years.
The short answer about PM10 is some variation of "tough luck" ... more in detail, there are two main sources of "error" in PM measurements with optical sensors, particularly with "low-cost" ones.
The first one is the fact that the sensors need to make assumptions about the density of the material they're sampling. In practice this translate into sensors that were "calibrated" in biomass smoke compare very well to "standard" instruments in wood-smoke dominated environments while not so well on soil or sea-salt dominated environments.
The second, and I believe most important, source of error is the inherent noise in the "larger" particles and how that affects the measurements. In a "normal" volume of air (rural, urban, marine ... anywhere except inside a lab) there are many times more particles that are smaller than 1 micron than larger than 5 microns ... BUT because one 10micron particle will weigh 1000 times more than one 1micron particle, one large particle more or less that the sensor sees will change the reading significantly.
You can see [here](https://publiclab.org/notes/guolivar/01-08-2018/thoughts-on-low-cost-air-quality-sensors) for a longer take on low-cost sensors for PM.

Now, coming back to the SPS30 and looking at the AQMD results it seems that the SPS30 cuts the larger particles. It either doesn't see them (the light sensor has a high limit for its response) or they get mechanically removed because of the path that the air follows to get to the sensor. BUT, without opening one I can't say for sure.

As for the second part of your question on alternatives to the Plantowers ... several, the SPS30, Novafit, Alphasense, Honeywell. All work pretty much the same way and if you are looking at PM2.5 and PM1 (and as an air quality scientist, that's where the focus is ... PM10 is definitely old news), then all of them do a decent job.


[guolivar](../profile/guolivar) replying to: [SPS30 instead of PlanTower units?](../notes/subir/09-23-2019/sps30-instead-of-plantower-units)

