---
node: SPS30 instead of PlanTower units?
author: guolivar
created_at: 2019-09-25 12:56:57 +0000
timestamp: 1569416217
nid: 20963
cid: 25583
uid: 424197
---



[guolivar](../profile/guolivar) replying to: [SPS30 instead of PlanTower units?](../notes/subir/09-23-2019/sps30-instead-of-plantower-units)

----
Great tear-down!

I see that a lot of love went into the Sensiron design and I mostly agree with the comments ... the issue of the HEPA filter is more dubious in my head. It may be put there for that purpose, I just question its performance.

Nevertheless, back to the PM10 issue. Your question about which size distribution is used to estimate the different PM metrics is key and unfortunately there is no "correct" answer. The calibration info that Sensiron provides ("fine potasium salts")  tells me that they use an aerosol generator (nebulizer, or VOAG, or something that takes a salty solution and makes a mist with a controlled concentration of particles) which means that the size distribution of the aerosol is more or less known (and I'd venture that it is close to mono-modal with a peak around 1 or 2 microns).

This is not inherently good or bad but tells me that their calibration factors are not suited for any type of combustion source so if you plan to use a Sensiron unit outdoor you'll first need to do what we do at the beginning and end of every campaign, which is to run the sensors exposed to air similar to what they'll measure during the deployment AND together with a "standard" instrument (and I'm sorry but the DusTrak doesn't qualify in my book), compare the measurements and extract correction factors that are appropriate to that specific deployment.

Finally, yes all optical sensors **estimate** PM metrics because PMx is DEFINED in reference to the weight of a filter, not an optical measure. Different sensors like the Grimm 11E or Teledyne's T640 have procedures that when you follow them you can claim that their measurements are "equivalent" to the standard but even those can and will report different concentrations if exposed to different aerosol, even if the amount of mass of particles remains the same.

The physics of the measurement principle of all those low-cost sensors is the same but their code implementation will be different. Some use smoothing functions which causes their response time to increase.