---
node: Can we use an arduino to run a photodiode and interference filter to detect  bioluminescence?
author: cfastie
created_at: 2019-09-26 20:06:53 +0000
timestamp: 1569528413
nid: 20995
cid: 25601
uid: 554
---



[cfastie](../profile/cfastie) replying to: [Can we use an arduino to run a photodiode and interference filter to detect  bioluminescence?](../notes/omarion/09-26-2019/can-we-use-an-arduino-to-run-a-photodiode-and-interference-filter-to-detect-bioluminescence)

----
This is a fun idea. l assume the bioluminescence will be detected only at night since it will be swamped by sunlight during the day. At night, bioluminescence will be the only source of light underwater assuming that the sensor is shielded from lights from ships, etc. So it is not necessary to use a filter that passes only the wavelengths emitted by marine organisms. There will not be any other wavelengths to filter out. If there are other light sources, the signal from bioluminescence will probably be contaminated whether or not a filter is used.

Any light sensor that can detect visible light can be used as long as it is extremely sensitive. Although bioluminescence can be spectacular at night, it might not be bright enough to register on most sensors. For example, most [photographs of marine bioluminescence](https://www.flickr.com/search/?text=marine%20bioluminescence) are taken with some combination of high ISO,  wide aperture, and long exposure (multiple seconds).

The [TSL2561](https://publiclab.org/tag/tsl2561) is a common light sensor used with Arduino. It uses a silicon photodiode and is therefore more sensitive to light than an LED used as light sensor. It can register a signal in as little as 0.2 lux which is about the brightness of a full moon on a clear night. This sounds promising, but in practice I have found that the sensor barely registers when it is in my house near  a window in the middle of a cloudy day. 

As proof of concept you could plug in a [TSL2561](http://kaptery.com/product/addon-sensors-etc) to a [Nano Data Logger](http://kaptery.com/product/nano-logger-kit) and see if it registers anything when dunked in glowing water (put the whole thing in a mason jar).

Chris