---
node: What do you do with charcoal from a water filter?
author: permaculturegardener
created_at: 2019-10-01 20:00:09 +0000
timestamp: 1569960009
nid: 21011
cid: 25622
uid: 623002
---



[permaculturegardener](../profile/permaculturegardener) replying to: [What do you do with charcoal from a water filter?](../notes/permaculturegardener/09-26-2019/what-do-you-do-with-charcoal-from-a-water-filter)

----
[@liz](/profile/liz)  
I thank you so much for your response.  We do not really have that here, and considering the track record of how the authoritys in Ecuador deal with toxins I am not sure I would trust that option.  I am dismayed that after a few hours of research I have not found an alternative to this option.   I am writing a course is for impacted communities that are facing mammoth forms of contamination.  I am writing it to offer basic applicable, accessible approaches to soil bioremediation.   What to do with the charcoal and the hyper accumulated heavy metals  in plants presents a huge hurtle to healing this land. 
This is the theory we came up with.  
My husband is a chemist and an artist who has had an extensive career in the fields of ceramics, its history and glazes.  He works to understand the the complex issue of heavy metal exposure and glazes.  There is a style of kiln called an [anagama](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Anagama_kiln) that was used extensively in Japan, China, and Korea, that is fuel efficient to its volume and achieves temperatures from that are not possible with most fuel types.  At the peak of firing all gases are re burned and the metals fuse with the ceramics [making beautiful colors](https://whitefishpottery.com/wp-content/uploads/2016/02/5.jpg) and patterns.  Our Hypothesis is that if you throw the contaminated dried plants/mushrooms/charcoal in at the peeks of firing that the metals would chemically alter and fuse into the pottery rendering them safe.  
A same kiln style could be used for making biochar as the air flow is tightly controllable.

Please i would love feedback on this idea.  I'm going to research more scientific articles about this.   

Again Liz thank you for your input.  I am losing sleep over this topic at the moment and I really appreciate the engagement.