---
cid: 25657
node: [Bad NDVI Results from Pi NOIR with Blue Filter](../notes/nstarli/10-08-2019/bad-ndvi-results-from-pi-noir-with-blue-filter)
nid: 21117
created_at: 2019-10-09 01:05:13 +0000
timestamp: 1570583113
uid: 581160
author: [nstarli](../profile/nstarli)
---

Thanks for the reply Chris. I have read through pretty much every single one of your posts! So my white balance calibration is the simple one that you and Ned had originally proposed. Basically I point the camera at a deep blue surface and allow the auto white balance to settle. I then save those values, turn off the auto white balance, and set the gain values to those saved values. This in turn is doing exactly as you said (exaggerating the brightness in the red channel while decreasing gains in blue). I think I probably am getting some visible light in the red channel. I believe I remember in another post you or Ned had stated that you would subtract out something like 30% of the pixel values in the red channel if I recall correctly? 

Fortunately we are eventually moving our automated robotic imaging system into our controlled phytotron which uses lighting to mimic natural sunlight as close as possible (I am a researcher at a large US research institution). Hopefully this will produce better results. I may also try using a red filter rather than blue as it seems that is what you guys prefer. 

Honestly it is kind of hard to follow all of your guys processes as there is not really a final summary of the process, rather various different posts describing different methods that have evolved over time, so I am not sure if I am doing all of this properly. However I am really grateful for all the work you guys have done, it's very interesting! So far I have done the white balance adjustments. I guess the next step would be to try and get some reflectance trends to do pixel transformations in order to get a more rigorous NDVI calculation as stated on this post:
https://publiclab.org/notes/cfastie/05-01-2016/calibration-cogitation

Do you know if I would be able to apply this process to the raspberry pi photos? Should I try to get the raw bayer photos for this process? I also was wondering if you all had decided on any standard calibration targets? I found  black, white, and 18% reflectance grey, white-balance standards on amazon. Would those three be enough data points to create my trend? It doesn't seem like much work has been done on this since about 2016 (or at least that seems to be when the new posts stopped), is this a project that is still actively being developed? 

[nstarli](../profile/nstarli) replying to: [Bad NDVI Results from Pi NOIR with Blue Filter](../notes/nstarli/10-08-2019/bad-ndvi-results-from-pi-noir-with-blue-filter)

