---
cid: 25669
node: [Harmonic Modes in a Red Laser Diode](../notes/wln215/03-12-2019/harmonic-modes-in-a-red-laser-diode)
nid: 18522
created_at: 2019-10-12 14:23:29 +0000
timestamp: 1570890209
uid: 304279
author: [JSummers](../profile/JSummers)
---

Hi Wln213,
Interesting project.
First thing, when you do technical writing like this, please describe the figures in greater detail.  The main figure is a screenshot of the output from the pi camera, I got that, but subsequent figures are not self-explanatory.  I think that the item in the foreground of the second figure contains the laser diode, both lenses and the grating and the item in the background is your detector.  If that is correct then I think I have a basic understanding of your setup.
Anyway, I think you have a problem with your optical setup.  If I understand the experiment, you are assuming the laser behaves as a point source so that each wavelength gets projected onto the ccd as a point.  This is not entirely true, however, and I think that your optical setup magnifies the image of the diode that gets projected onto the ccd.  You can pretty easily test this hypothesis by taking the grating out of the setup and measuring the size of the spot that is projected at the focal length of the focusing lens.  The size of that spot is will determine the wavelength sensitivity of your instrument.
Perhaps I do not understand the nature of the experiment you are doing, but I do not think you should be getting a 2-dimensional diffraction pattern from a grating that has lines in just one direction.
If you agree that this is a potential problem, I would be happy to discuss potential solutions.
Good luck.
Jack

 

[JSummers](../profile/JSummers) replying to: [Harmonic Modes in a Red Laser Diode](../notes/wln215/03-12-2019/harmonic-modes-in-a-red-laser-diode)

