---
cid: 25667
node: [Bad NDVI Results from Pi NOIR with Blue Filter](../notes/nstarli/10-08-2019/bad-ndvi-results-from-pi-noir-with-blue-filter)
nid: 21117
created_at: 2019-10-11 03:32:48 +0000
timestamp: 1570764768
uid: 554
author: [cfastie](../profile/cfastie)
---

`>>So according to this we should be getting about 10% transmission of red light, does that mean I should subtract 10% of each pixel value in the red channel in order to remove red noise in the NIR channel? 

The correction for VIS contamination of the NIR channel (the red channel in this case) depends on the proportion of VIS:NIR being captured in that channel (if the VIS:NIR captured is 20:100 you would reduce the value by 20%). According to Rosco's data, ~10% of incoming red light passes through that filter, but you don't know how much NIR passes through that filter (the Rosco graph stops at 750 nm). You can assume that most of the red passing the filter will be captured by the sensor, but you don't how much of the NIR will be captured. So you don't really have enough information to make that correction. In the case of your phytotron, you know the wavelength of NIR light, but you don't know either how much of that is transmitted by the Rosco filter or how much of that is captured by the sensor (the Bayer filter might block some, and the sensor itself is not very sensitive to 1010 nm NIR). 

Having the spectral response of the Pi NoIR camera will help (I thought someone had posted it here, but it could be tough to find it unless someone remembers where it is). Then you can approximate the proportion of incoming red (of some nm range) to incoming NIR (of some nm range) which should be captured by the sensor. There is a discussion of how to do this [here.](https://groups.google.com/forum/#!msg/plots-infrared/aJhM30D6bUM/zuZqlFYiHQAJ;context-place=forum/plots-infrared)

The calibration process translates brightness in a certain wavelength range (recorded by the camera) into radiance (a measure of the energy of the light) in that wavelength range (see [Figure 1 here](https://publiclab.org/notes/cfastie/05-01-2016/calibration-cogitation)). 

`>> Could we simply use an NIR cutoff filter on the Pi NoIR and use the red channel from the RGB camera to find these calculations?

Yes, this could provide good VIS (red) and NIR data. The Pi NoIR camera will not be very sensitive to 1010 nm NIR light, so even though foliage is reflecting lots of NIR and little red, the red channel (of the RGB camera) might be brighter than any NIR channel (of the filtered NoIR camera). So calibration is still required. Calibration corrects for the camera's inherent undercapture of NIR energy.

Using two cameras also requires rectifying two photos rather precisely. This is easy, but only if the two lenses are very close together so parallax is minimized. The closer the lenses are to each other and the farther they are from the corn plants, the better.

Chris



[cfastie](../profile/cfastie) replying to: [Bad NDVI Results from Pi NOIR with Blue Filter](../notes/nstarli/10-08-2019/bad-ndvi-results-from-pi-noir-with-blue-filter)

