---
node: Removing IR filter from basic webcam?
author: jevs
created_at: 2019-11-12 21:16:38 +0000
timestamp: 1573593398
nid: 21429
cid: 25842
uid: 635927
---



[jevs](../profile/jevs) replying to: [Removing IR filter from basic webcam?](../notes/jevs/11-09-2019/removing-ir-filter-from-basic-webcam)

----
Yeah. I understand what your saying and I had seen many cameras like this on the net where people removed the IR filter, but this one has nothing there. That is what I thought I would be doing when I started with this camera.
That "mounded"/"curved" portion of the optic is the only thing your going to hit if your prodding around. There is nothing in front of it. 
It seems the IR filtering is somehow part of the optic or inner to the optic assembly, rather than an outer separate layer you can simply remove. Or, it is on the CCD possibly? I actually removed that outer glass from the CCD, but it took a chip with it on the edge and ruined it. I do not know if that was the IR filter or not, but the fragments did have some tint to them. 
I did find where someone mentioned the IR possibly being within the optic of some cameras, and I suspect that is the way this one is. There was mention that you have to buy a separate lens without the IR filtering to use those.
If anyone has actually done anything with this exact style camera I would be curious to know what they found.  
Comparing this to other cameras is not really working because this one does not appear to be the same. I have ordered another camera that I do expect to have the filter as you describe that I can remove. Unfortunately it has other unnecessary components like a microphone etc, but it is still cheap. 
At this point I have not had a working setup yet to know much. I am on my second attempt to get a camera to actually make one. 
I won't know much about them until I get a working one, or all the parts to get one together. 
I just wanted to start with a camera that I know has the IR filter removed. 