---
node: Feasibility-check: NDVI analysis of moss
author: cfastie
created_at: 2019-11-15 18:39:07 +0000
timestamp: 1573843147
nid: 21496
cid: 25861
uid: 554
---



[cfastie](../profile/cfastie) replying to: [Feasibility-check: NDVI analysis of moss](../notes/zomb23/11-15-2019/feasibility-check-ndvi-analysis-of-moss)

----
I think NDVI will provide some information about the photosynthetic rate of mosses. Moss leaves capable of rapid photosynthesis will probably be absorbing more red light than slower growing leaves. If NIR reflection from those leaves is a constant, the NDVI equation will provide a larger value when high photosynthesis allows more absorbance (and therefore less reflection) of red. In herbaceous and woody plants, reflection of NIR decreases as leaves are stressed, lowering the NDVI value. I don't know if this also happens in moss leaves. So the relationship between photosynthetic rate and NDVI might be different in mosses. 

When the change in photosynthetic rate is subtle, NDVI can still reflect the change. The colors typically used to represent NDVI values are not suited to display subtle differences, because only a dozen or so easily discernible colors represent all the NDVI values between no photosynthesis (0.1) and maximum photosynthesis (0.8). The NDVI numerical values will be required to document subtle differences, or color gradients can be made for subsets of the NDVI range.

To determine the NDVI value for moss, an area of an NDVI image where there is only moss foliage can be used. NDVI values for non moss areas in the image can be ignored. 

For more precise estimates of photosynthetic activity, [chlorophyll fluorescence](https://publiclab.org/notes/cfastie/12-15-2014/multispeq-fluorescence) can be used. Chlorophyll emits light in a narrow band when excited by light of another narrow band. The level of fluorescence can be used to estimate photosynthetic potential. [Devices ](https://blog.photosynq.org/)are available to measure fluorescence but it can be done with LEDs and light sensors.

Chris