---
node: Outreachy proposal: Refine Geographic UI and JS Integration for PublicLab.org
author: warren
created_at: 2019-12-16 22:20:34 +0000
timestamp: 1576534834
nid: 21306
cid: 26023
uid: 1
---



[warren](../profile/warren) replying to: [Outreachy proposal: Refine Geographic UI and JS Integration for PublicLab.org](../notes/christie_reni/10-26-2019/outreachy-proposal-refine-geographic-ui-and-js-integration-for-publiclab-org)

----
Hi, [@christie_reni](/profile/christie_reni)! I wanted to chime in here because I was thinking hard about the upcoming work especially in your plan, and wanted to highlight and emphasize something I think needs some careful thought and design. 

We have so many different layers, and they come from different sources. Some are good quality, others not. Some from distributed networks of people with not a lot of curation, some are unverified reports, some are historic or partial, some are from US government databases. 

This includes ones which we think are not very good! the Toxics Release Inventory, for example, has only about 400 reports TOTAL since the 1980s for the entire state of Rhode Island, where I live. This is because it's voluntary for industries to make these reports, and we assume they dramatically under-report pollution they themselves cause. 

So this kind of context is so critical to know when browsing, whether we should view the data with skepticism, whether we should know that it represents historic data and not a "live" dataset, and so on and so forth. 

For one, we should start compiling short texts on each layer to collect up these "explanatory texts" even before we decide where to show them. 

I think this issue is one that you might be able to dig into and come up with some simple solutions for - like, in the description field of the map layer chooser UI, or in standardized "more info" boxes in each popup. I'd like to ask if you could put some thought into this, and possibly [@natalie_stjean](/profile/natalie_stjean) and [@sagarpreet](/profile/sagarpreet) as well -- but I thought to write to you first as it seems potentially most overlapped with your design and project work. 

I'm happy to discuss more, and to be honest i think there is more than one way to address this, and some of the ways are quite simple. Thanks for hearing me out! 