---
cid: 2602
node: [White balance and NIR photography](../notes/nedhorning/11-3-2012/white-balance-and-nir-photography)
nid: 4759
created_at: 2012-11-21 01:14:02 +0000
timestamp: 1353460442
uid: 554
author: [cfastie](../profile/cfastie)
---

Calibration gardens – flying over a soybean field is a lot easier than flying over a forest. Soybeans are also a lot more homogeneous, and are easier to measure photosynthesis in.  I guess the idea is to fly over a field for which photosynthesis had very recently been measured with the goal of calibrating the values of NDVI derived from the aerial images? Maybe Dorn can lead us to such a field next summer. Dorn will soon have results for his cover crop field for biomass of each species is each treatment plot.  That may be as good as any other calibration field.

Calibration of the cameras – Can this be done by taking photos of a light source of known spectral qualities? RAW images could be captured.  I am not sure why we want to do this.

Ned – You are correct that a jpeg photo does not tell us much about which wavelengths passed through the exposed film filter and then through the Bayer filters.  A RAW image file does not have much more information about this. Even knowing which visible wavelengths are leaking through the film filter will not help unless we know they are all being captured in (e.g.) the red and green channels, so we know to use only the blue channel to produce NRG or NDVI images.

To find out how good the PLOTS IR camera is at producing NDVI, the first step might be to take images with all three of your NIR camera pairs and compare the NDVI made with them.

I wonder whether the PLOTS IR camera tool will ever be able to produce anything but relative values for NDVI unless two targets with known spectral reflectance are included in every photo.


[cfastie](../profile/cfastie) replying to: [White balance and NIR photography](../notes/nedhorning/11-3-2012/white-balance-and-nir-photography)

