---
cid: 2604
node: [White balance and NIR photography](../notes/nedhorning/11-3-2012/white-balance-and-nir-photography)
nid: 4759
created_at: 2012-11-21 02:53:11 +0000
timestamp: 1353466391
uid: 133
author: [nedhorning](../profile/nedhorning)
---

I agree a forest is not a good calibration site. For aerial and satellite sensors a popular calibration site is White Sands in New Mexico. It has well documented static reflectance properties and it's huge,  flat and not all that sensitive to specular reflection.  If we want a vegetation site then maybe maybe short grass on flat terrain like a turf farm or golf course would work. Helpful properties would be dense cover, few shadows, and level. Here's a link if you want to see some other possibilities: http://calval.cr.usgs.gov/satellite/sites_catalog/

If we wanted to calibrate the images to NDVI we'd probably need to have a spectrometer to measure radiance so we could calculate reasonably accurate NDVI for test points and then develop a relationship between image values and NDVI. Another, more direct approach if we are interested in a physical variable like biomass would be to calibrate directly with biomass. That's basically how we map above-ground forest biomass. We talked a bit about doing this with Dorn when we were out there but I guess interest waned. 

To calibrate the cameras what you wrote is more or less how it works. You take a picture of very narrow wavebands of light with known intensity. There are a few extra steps but at the end you have a camera that can record radiance for the R,G, and B bands. You also know the spectral response for each band recorded by the camera. Knowing the physical characteristics of a camera's sensor isn't critical for most applications but it is handy for analysis. 


[nedhorning](../profile/nedhorning) replying to: [White balance and NIR photography](../notes/nedhorning/11-3-2012/white-balance-and-nir-photography)

