---
node: Is there a way to make a cheaper "UV Hound"?
author: warren
created_at: 2020-01-08 23:56:22 +0000
timestamp: 1578527782
nid: 21284
cid: 26110
uid: 1
---



[warren](../profile/warren) replying to: [Is there a way to make a cheaper "UV Hound"?](../notes/liz/10-24-2019/is-there-a-way-to-make-a-cheaper-uv-hound)

----
Deep UV or DUV is pretty hard to detect. This article talks about it: https://www.vision-systems.com/non-factory/life-sciences/article/16736672/uv-imaging-opens-new-applications

(These are some cameras that can do it, but I'm not sure if it's necessary for them to be cryogenically cooled or if these are that for a different reason: https://www.horiba.com/en_en/products/detail/action/show/Product/1487/)

One idea that the article explores is using a fluorescent coating that will glow, so the camera doesn't have to detect DUV, but can photograph the coating: 

> _Another method involves coating the substrate with a wave-shifting coating such as Metachrome II or various phosphors. These coatings fluoresce in the visible portion of the spectrum. The fluorescence signal can traverse the substrate more easily than short-wavelength UV and, therefore, is detected. The disadvantage is that half the light generated by the fluorescence process radiates away from the sensor and is never detected. The coatings also degrade the MTF of the camera system and can introduce image-retention issues if the camera is running at a high frame rate._

And the lenses have to be made of quartz:

> _Standard glass lenses will not work well in the deep-UV band, since the typical lens glass absorbs strongly below 300 nm. Special lenses made with quartz (fused silica) or calcium fluorite are required. There are few off-the-shelf sources for these lenses, and the cost is quite high compared to visible-light optics. Microscope objectives are available for confocal microscopes operating in the DUV band._

