---
node: Can you relate Secchi disk measurements to turbidity sensor measurements?
author: Tarek_Omar
created_at: 2020-02-06 06:59:33 +0000
timestamp: 1580972373
nid: 21317
cid: 26259
uid: 661793
---



[Tarek_Omar](../profile/Tarek_Omar) replying to: [Can you relate Secchi disk measurements to turbidity sensor measurements?](../notes/wmacfarl/10-28-2019/can-you-relate-secchi-disk-measurements-to-turbidity-sensor-measurements)

----
The digital sensor tell the turbidity by measuring how much of a known light intensity reaches its light sensor in a known amount of liquid and its calibration data is saved in a computer memory and every sensor is different and must be individually calibrated.
The  Secchi desk works in a slimier way except our eyes are the light sensor and the calibration data is in a notebook, every human is different and its better to have your own notebook.

The easiest solution I would think of in case you are taking outdoors measurements.
Always take the readings at the same time of the day, 12 pm for example, write down the full date and weather conditions including the sky clarity and then write down the measurements. Then compare the readings from the calibrated digital sensor with the Secchi readings in your notebook "Your analog calibration". Later while taking your regular readings try to be in the same conditions like your past calibrated readings. 

Digital sensors wear out and need calibration periodically as specified in their datasheet same as using the Secchi under the sun. Depending on where you live, you will need to compare your data with a calibrated digital sensors every x months according to the position of the sun in the sky and the time of the year.
