---
node: GSoC 2020 proposal: Spam Management Dashboard
author: bansal_sidharth2996
created_at: 2020-03-14 18:26:32 +0000
timestamp: 1584210392
nid: 23129
cid: 26476
uid: 503599
---



[bansal_sidharth2996](../profile/bansal_sidharth2996) replying to: [GSoC 2020 proposal: Spam Management Dashboard](../notes/keshav_sethi0004/03-12-2020/gsoc-2020-proposal-spam-management-dashboard)

----
Hello Keshav, I left some feedbacks at Google Docs thanks for incorporating them. It is an awesome proposal. I am just thinking about each idea you proposed. Few Suggestions:
1. From the timeline, you can shift the reading documentation of gems in the community bonding period. We totally understand you have end term exams, so you can read them before your end semester exams too. No need to worry in end sem exams. 
2. Regarding Bulk Moderation as I suggested previously, please provide the implementation details, like MVC, involved names, which type of sorting filters you will be incorporating, like by title, date of last modification, there will be bulk moderation (a separate web page accessible by only admins/moderators OR under settings ?), etc.
3. Please separate the design details from the implementation details. Example: Bulk Moderation is a high-level design while the Daily Digest is fine grain implementation. Solution: Divide it into 2 parts - Design and implementation. Write just the approach which you want to discuss in the design with er diagram/flow chart/dfd/ui/ux/mock ups etc. While in the implementation details write the core implementation details. 
Reason for this type of categorical arrangement: Many folks at PL are non-coders so they will be willing to help you, the design part is for them. Developers look at both.
4.  ``Automatic tagging of posts`` kindly consult Jeff regarding ML involvements here as he is much more experienced in handling multiple repos than me. This is really gigantic thing. I don't think we should include this in GSoC. What approach will you follow if we are ready to incorporate the ML engine and there are a 1% false classification rate?
5. ``My Queue`` kindly name the Queue. Secondly, please explain again. Sorry I am not able to understand it completely.
6. ``Flagged post`` PL has a variety of posts(research notes, wikis, maps, static pages etc.) Kindly mention specifically what you mean by post. Secondly, flagging is done on posts and comments too. Kindly include comments too.
7. Can you kindly check the behavior of banned user profiles? 
Example Scenario: X is an intruder at PL. X is initially behaving like a diligent fellow for some weeks. X wrote comments on some profile,  initially good ones and then bad ones. Now, Moderator M bans X. Then what will happen to the comments by X (both good and bad ones)? Also, if user Y checks pl/profile/X what will they observe?
8. Kindly break `spammers registration and old inactive users` there is a plethora of things to discuss.
9. Loved Insight section.
 Kindly take your time and modify the proposal accordingly.
Thanks for such great work at pl and superb proposal!