---
node: Can I use the infragram.org for my thesis? Thanks!
author: M0nk3y
created_at: 2020-03-18 17:52:38 +0000
timestamp: 1584553958
nid: 22895
cid: 26514
uid: 675318
---



[M0nk3y](../profile/M0nk3y) replying to: [Can I use the infragram.org for my thesis? Thanks!](../notes/tooooopher05/02-22-2020/can-i-use-the-infragram-org-for-my-thesis-thanks)

----
Hi there, i did'nt wanted to re-do a topic that would have been really similar as this one. I hope i will be enough precise to get an answer to my question. Here it is: I am currently trying to assess the photosynthetic activity of some strawberry and lettuce plants in order to compair it. Those plants will not be conducted Under the same cultural practices...in a way. To be totaly  precise they are going to grow in an aeroponic urban farm column on a Paris rooftop (yes i am French...excuse my poor English…). I want to assess if their is a significant difference of photosynthetic activity between the plants at the top of the column and the ones at the Bottom. I know that it would be much more precise and efficient to use a fluorometer for it, but the company i am working for can't afford it. So their is my precise question: In what extent the infragram and so the NDVI measure is precise when we talk about measuring photosynthetic activity? Do you think that it will be enough to reveal differences between my plants knowing the really slight environment differences between them?   

I hope that my question is enough clear and even more that you can give me an answer ^^.
Merci beaucoup!