---
cid: 26552
node: [GSoC Proposal:Editor repair and fortification](../notes/keshavgarg234156/03-06-2020/gsoc-proposal-editor-repair-and-fortification)
nid: 23092
created_at: 2020-03-24 19:46:44 +0000
timestamp: 1585079204
uid: 1
author: [warren](../profile/warren)
---

Hi [@keshavgarg234156](/profile/keshavgarg234156) - Just chiming in that I replied at some length on your issue in GitHub which is relevant here too:

https://github.com/publiclab/PublicLab.Editor/issues/419#issuecomment-603279770

I'll excerpt it here too:

****

So, on https://publiclab.org/wiki/inline-maps it shows that there are Markdown extensions that we call "inline grids" on plots2, that look like: `[map:_______]` -- these get auto-converted along with Markdown into the interactive features. So, really what we need is a UI for generating these and inserting these strings. For a simple example, you can look at the button/popup for generating tables; it's a submodule of the Rich Text module here: https://github.com/publiclab/PublicLab.Editor/blob/master/src/modules/PublicLab.RichTextModule.Table.js

You click the button, choose height and width, and then it inserts the string for a Markdown table. In our case, we'd have a more complex UI to show the types of inline features we want, and then you'd click OK and it'd insert the corresponding string in the format specified in /inline-maps, that is, `[map:________]` where it'd substitute in the parameters that were selected in the form. 

This is a bit convoluted i know but think of it as a "helper" which helps you write Markdown, essentially. The part for displaying the maps is already done and works, it's just hard for non-programmers to know the exact formatting and parameters for the inline grid "markdown extensions" so we are helping people step by step configure this stuff by choosing a map region, etc.

I'd probably start by just having people input the values in `<input>`s and get that working before doing a more complex UI which could include a draggable map. That way you could tackle the problem in separate modular parts, you know? Likewise, just focus on one basic type of inline content first, and build on that to add additional types. 

Thanks!

[warren](../profile/warren) replying to: [GSoC Proposal:Editor repair and fortification](../notes/keshavgarg234156/03-06-2020/gsoc-proposal-editor-repair-and-fortification)

