---
node: Packaged photo monitoring plugins available on the GitHub repositoy
author: sl_axe
created_at: 2020-03-27 15:24:23 +0000
timestamp: 1585322663
nid: 12582
cid: 26599
uid: 660322
---



[sl_axe](../profile/sl_axe) replying to: [Packaged photo monitoring plugins available on the GitHub repositoy](../notes/nedhorning/01-13-2016/packaged-photo-monitoring-plugins-available-on-the-github-repositoy)

----
Thank your for this tool Ned.

I am trying to create NDVI animations/videos using FIJI and the Photo Monitoring plug in. Here is my workflow:

1. I record with two cameras: 1 visible, 1 in near infrared.
2. I align and synch the two videos in Adobe Premier Pro.
3. I export the two channels into separate directories as jpg sequences. Each directory (visible and NIR) contains a sequences of files looking something like this: name_0001; name_0002; name_0003, etc...

Here comes issue I am having: when it comes to 'creating a dual image list' using the plug-in, I get an 'exception' dialogue. I assume that this because the exported sequence now only contains the timestamp of when the file was created rather than maintaining the time stamp of when the video was shot. 

I have tried to modify in bulk the timestamps of all of the images in the sequence to have the same one, however this has not worked.

My question is: Is there a way to force the plug in to create a list from the file names rather than the time stored?

This has work well with the 'single image index processing from directory' (see attached example), but I would like to make it work with my dual camera set up. 

If there is any advice on how to overcome this please let me know!

Thanks! - - Stefan
<a href="/i/38762"><i class="fa fa-file"></i> NDVI_color_2_1.mp4</a>

