---
cid: 268
node: [Refractometer for measuring nutrient density in food](../notes/liz/6-7-2011/refractometer-measuring-nutrient-density)
nid: 339
created_at: 2011-06-08 13:48:00 +0000
timestamp: 1307540880
uid: 1
author: [warren](../profile/warren)
---

I'd hazard a guess that a spectrometer would yield much more information about the contents of sap -- there's only one dimension in BRIX data, just one number. 

Like, does higher BRIX mean more sugars, or more minerals, or what? There doesn't seem to be any way to tell; and with grapes, the original use case, Mathew points out that sugar is the key factor for fermentation. So is BRIX just showing higher sugar? Maybe that's valid since many fruits are "better" if they are sweeter. 

What are the specific compounds nutrient-rich growers are trying to maximize? We can ask Severine a bit on Thursday, but it seems not unlikely that you'd be able to use a spectrometer to identify a spectral curve for what people call "good" vegetation and use that to assess other examples of that particular species of fruit/veg. Or if you're more interested in specific nutrients, we could compare the spectra to some way of measuring those to see if there's a strong correlation. 

I found this nice outline of how a refractometer is used by one organic farmer on [this discussion forum](http://forums.permaculture.org.au/archive/index.php/t-7483.html?s=3bc249c84fcb99cb69dcd869fd6aa818):

> A leaf sample is taken from the crop.
crushed to express sap/plant juices and put on the prism face of the refractometer and the reading taken.

> The prepared Foliar feed spray is applied to a given sq. metre at the same rate to be scaled up to cover the acreage.

> about 1/2 to 1 hour later another reading is taken of the identical part to the previous reading ie. tip and first three lvs. or whatever.

> If the resultant reading has raised the brix level 2points or more then thats the green light to go ahead and apply to the whole crop.
If no increase it could mean that the foliar feed will not benefit the crop.
foliar feeds work best when there is adequate calcium in the soil.

> Limitations - if the crop is water stressed then the dissolved solids are less diluted and give a false high reading.

> The refractometer wont reveal heavy metals, pesticide or herbicide residues and 
also wont give any difference in the reading if it is the case,
possibly apart from lower readings due to a less healthy plant due to heavy metal particularly as they can intrfere with the uptake of essential plant nutrients especially if there are nutrient imbalances in the soil.


[warren](../profile/warren) replying to: [Refractometer for measuring nutrient density in food](../notes/liz/6-7-2011/refractometer-measuring-nutrient-density)

