---
node: How do you write and post in the public lab community? Asking for our developers!
author: kgradow1
created_at: 2020-06-02 14:35:13 +0000
timestamp: 1591108513
nid: 23753
cid: 26918
uid: 297929
---



[kgradow1](../profile/kgradow1) replying to: [How do you write and post in the public lab community? Asking for our developers!](../notes/emash/06-01-2020/how-do-you-write-and-post-in-the-public-lab-community-asking-for-our-developers)

----
1) What is your workflow?  I typically only write on PL when I am actively working on projects, since that's when I'm on the site and paying attention.  when posting I try to break posts into smaller chunks that are linked vs. one giant research note, and I try to break research notes into distinct sections so they are easy to digest.   I don't tend to search by tags unless I am looking for something specific, typically a wiki page that I am trying to reference.  

2) Do you draft somewhere? Write from a computer, tablet, or phone? I draft in Google Docs over a couple of sessions and then post.  Usually once it's posted there are only minor edits. 

3) I'm new here, how should I go about posting and asking questions?  I recommend checking out questions first and then looking through some of the topic pages!

4) What parts of our site are you using to write? Wikis? Posts? Questions? Comments? Are there things that feel different to you about them?   I use wikis, comments, and questions.  I use research notes less often, but tend to use research notes and activities in conjunction with each other to do walk-throughs and structured activities. 

5) Is there media you are looking to share when you post? Photos? Maps? A table?  I would love better guidance on how to integrate tables!  (right now I mostly screenshot them and drop them in as images, which is not the best way to do this).  I've also struggled with power tags, as someone who is not super familiar with markup. 

6) What do you find frustrating? Do you have work-arounds to avoid software behaviors from posting to Public Lab?  I've been having difficulties getting tags to work in the way they are designed to, and I by and large have not used power tags because the learning curve is a little steep for me.  

And lastly, 7) are there any buttons or tools or ways the editors work that you're not sure about? We can help clarify these for you!  I love that there is sample text to guide people.  I think that's really helpful and makes editing a lot more inviting. 