---
node: NDVI results from modified camera is inaccurate
author: ThomasTaufan
created_at: 2020-06-05 14:02:55 +0000
timestamp: 1591365775
nid: 23780
cid: 26934
uid: 640373
---



[ThomasTaufan](../profile/ThomasTaufan) replying to: [NDVI results from modified camera is inaccurate](../notes/ThomasTaufan/06-05-2020/ndvi-results-from-modified-camera-is-inaccurate)

----
##Many cameras have a feature that allows a custom white balance. If the software for your camera does not allow this, it is not an option for you.

Yes, my camera has the option to manually change the white balance using slider, and I point it to the red card outdoor with bright sunlight. How can I know the white balance is correct using the red card(For example the color is cyan or turqoise), because the configuration is done manually by sliding the value. Is it by trial and error until the color of plant is like the one you provided? 

##A photo that can be converted to NDVI should have about three times more brightness in the NIR channel than in the VIS channel. Your photos have about 1.5 more NIR than VIS.

Could you tell me how to improve that?

##Below is an NDVI image made with Fiji from your photo. There is some very general plant health information there. Much of the pattern of NDVI is due to brightness and shade, not differences in plant health. It is best to have the scene illuminated evenly by the sun, and even better on bright cloudy days when there are limited shadows. Having the sun behind you helps a lot.

This photo is taken outdoor with the scene illuminated evenly by the sun, I don't really understand what you meant of "Much of the pattern of NDVI is due to brightness and shade, not differences in plant health." Could you please explain it more to me?

Thanks Chris