---
cid: 26943
node: [Why we see red image when using blue filter?](../notes/wangmeising97/06-05-2020/why-we-see-red-image-when-using-blue-filter)
nid: 23784
created_at: 2020-06-06 14:47:25 +0000
timestamp: 1591454845
uid: 554
author: [cfastie](../profile/cfastie)
---

With a red filter, photos will be bluish if the blue channel (which is used for NIR) is brighter than the red channel (which is used for VIS). For healthy foliage there should be about three times more NIR than red light reflecting from leaves, so foliage should look blue.

The light used to illuminate the plants for photography must include a lot of NIR or else meaningful NDVI will not be possible. Your white LEDs may or may not include lots of NIR. It is not necessary to grow the plants with NIR light -- the plants do not use it and leaves reflect most of it. That is why NDVI works. When you take a photo to learn about plant health by computing NDVI, there must be lots of NIR illuminating the plants. If not, the light recorded in your NIR channel will not be NIR and the NDVI results will be meaningless. So when photography is done, maybe turn on lots of NIR LEDs that are as bright as the white LEDs.

It is not possible to evaluate your NDVI image because you did not include any information about what the different colors mean.

The [note ](https://publiclab.org/notes/petter_mansson1/04-09-2019/low-cost-ndvi-analysis-using-raspberrypi-and-pinoir)you linked to does not mention anything about how they illuminated the plants during photography so it is not possible to evaluate the validity of the results.

Chris

[cfastie](../profile/cfastie) replying to: [Why we see red image when using blue filter?](../notes/wangmeising97/06-05-2020/why-we-see-red-image-when-using-blue-filter)

