---
node: NDVI results from modified camera is inaccurate
author: cfastie
created_at: 2020-06-07 01:56:45 +0000
timestamp: 1591495005
nid: 23780
cid: 26950
uid: 554
---



[cfastie](../profile/cfastie) replying to: [NDVI results from modified camera is inaccurate](../notes/ThomasTaufan/06-05-2020/ndvi-results-from-modified-camera-is-inaccurate)

----
The "histogram" is a frequency distribution of brightness values (DNs, 0-255) for all of the pixels in a photo, in this case for one color channel. A graph of the distribution displays how many pixels (y-axis) had each brightness value (x-axis). Changing the shape of the distribution can sometimes allow more information about plant health to be discerned. Stretching the histogram means rescaling all of the DNs so the smallest is 0 and the largest is 255. Sometimes one or more of the smallest and largest DNs are deleted before rescaling the others. This typically spreads out the distribution so it covers more of the range from 0-255. If the histogram is stretched, it should be stretched the same way for all photos that will be compared to each other.

With information about the sensitivity of your camera's sensor to wavelengths from blue to NIR it is possible to estimate how much each channel might be contaminated with visible or NIR light . There is a discussion of how to do this [here](https://groups.google.com/forum/#!msg/plots-infrared/aJhM30D6bUM/zuZqlFYiHQAJ).

Custom white balancing to exaggerate the brightness of the NIR channel is done differently on different cameras. Many cameras have a [custom white balance option](https://publiclab.org/notes/cfastie/11-22-2013/white-balance-for-all). The [Mobius camera](https://publiclab.org/notes/cfastie/04-24-2014/mobius-white-balance) (which took the turquoise moss photo) allows values to be entered for the brightness of each channel. The RPi camera software has a function called [AWB gains](https://publiclab.org/search?q=awb%20gains) which allows values to be entered to modify the brightness of each channel.

Chris