---
cid: 27095
node: [What causes shimmering air above flares?](../notes/kgradow1/06-25-2020/what-causes-shimmering-air-above-flares)
nid: 24042
created_at: 2020-07-02 00:57:12 +0000
timestamp: 1593651432
uid: 297929
author: [kgradow1](../profile/kgradow1)
---

I think it's both, right?

Emission bands give you a spectra you can match.  The blue light that's emitted from a regular flame, swan bands, for instance, are emission spectra from free carbon radicals.  They're characteristic of hydrocarbon flames (which is, like, most flame).  Exothermic reaction releases a photon, but the reaction isn't tied to temperature. 

Blackbody radiation is based on heated particulate matter, and its color is directly linked to temperature.  If you know what's burning you can match it and find the temp, or you can take the temp.  But it's hard, because you're very rarely burning anything discrete.  If I'm burning a piece of wood or a pile of paper, a lot of that is carbon, but there's a lot of other stuff mixed in.   I assume stack emissions are the same.  You're never burning *only* sulfur or copper-based compounds.  You're burning a mix, and so it's hard to identify based on emission spectra or blackbody radiation alone. 

That's why I asked about the lack of smoke.  I take it as a sign that whatever is burning is fully combusting, so you're getting a full conversion.  If that's the case, it might be easier to identify?   (less soot, less random carbon, fewer particulates, less mess, more likelihood of being able to identify discrete compounds).  But I think that's a little optimistic. 


[kgradow1](../profile/kgradow1) replying to: [What causes shimmering air above flares?](../notes/kgradow1/06-25-2020/what-causes-shimmering-air-above-flares)

