---
cid: 27147
node: [GSOC 2020 Week 8 (coding Period Week-4)@Spam Management Dashboard](../notes/keshav_sethi0004/06-29-2020/gsoc-2020-week-8-coding-period-week-4-spam-management-dashboard)
nid: 24062
created_at: 2020-07-09 14:41:14 +0000
timestamp: 1594305674
uid: 653396
author: [keshav_sethi0004](../profile/keshav_sethi0004)
---

Thanks [@liz](/profile/liz) and [@stevie](/profile/stevie) for your reviews.

`Hi neat! Lots of good work here. It took a bit for it to load for me, so I found myself guessing what each button did before I had a chance to interact with it. I found myself wanting to know if some were filters and others actions. I did figure this out once I was able to interact with it, but it might be good to label them as such on the page so people don't have to click things to find out. `

* I have added tooltips for all moderation features. *

`Between the two button lines - top radio buttons on actions and second line, there's a lot. I might recommend we consider reducing these. Here are some thoughts I had on them`

I have removed page and note filter as it is not of much use as a separate wiki page is already there. I have also removed the hide column and specific search feature as it is similar to another search in that page feature.

`Top bar: - what does "delete" do? I can't imagine we want to delete from the page, just mark spam and publish. I could imagine if we have both, we could end up with different practices if some people delete posts and others just mark as spam. - I'm not sure of the usefulness of "select" - what purpose does it serve? - I'm also not sure I know the difference between "spam" and "ban." I thought they did the same thing in our system right now?`

*SPAM* means marking node status as spam i.e 0 and banning that user. spam nodes will be in the database and can be restored in the future.
*BAN* means just banning that user but keeping his posts.
*SELECT* It means selecting all the items on that page.
*DELETE* it justs delete that node. It will not ban that user. That node will be removed from database and can't be restored in the future.


`Second bar: - I'd move the "reset all" button to the far right of this row since there are filter functions after it. It's a little confusing in the middle. - The "unmoderated" button is new and probably helpful. - What are the "page" and "note" ones? is that research notes vs wiki pages? I'm wondering if this would be a more useful identifier in the table itself rather than as a button filter feature. I might move those two buttons to be part of one of the dropdowns rather than filters that stand out on their own.`

I have removed Note and page filter as mentioned above.

`Dropdowns: - There seem to be a lot of filter functions, some in the bar itself, and two spaces to sort by in dropdowns. I would probably pick between the two drop down menus - The one in the top bar or the one in the bottom. - I'm not sure how the sort by "title" and "author" one would be helpful, just because we'll have so many, I see those being more useful under the search function rather than in the sort by function.`

Sort and search are useful as per page items can be increased to 150. I am working on a global search as well. I will make a PR for this soon.


Thanks, [@liz](/profile/liz) and [@stevie](/profile/stevie) for your review. They are really helpful.
  
*_NOTE_* I working on a detailed document about the working of the dashboard. 

[keshav_sethi0004](../profile/keshav_sethi0004) replying to: [GSOC 2020 Week 8 (coding Period Week-4)@Spam Management Dashboard](../notes/keshav_sethi0004/06-29-2020/gsoc-2020-week-8-coding-period-week-4-spam-management-dashboard)

