---
cid: 27158
node: [NDVI Image Captures Non-Plant Objects](../notes/velahs/07-08-2020/ndvi-image-captures-non-plant-objects)
nid: 24118
created_at: 2020-07-13 20:15:28 +0000
timestamp: 1594671328
uid: 518193
author: [a1ahna](../profile/a1ahna)
---

Hey [@velhas](/profile/velhas)!  Your work is super fascinating and useful!  I come from a GIS background so I'm not too familiar with using NDVI in the way that you are presenting in this post, but thought I should suggest looking into an unsupervised classification program using python to automate identification of vegetation and masking of background pixels.  This way you can identify a threshold for infrared reflectance values and have those classified as vegetation while other pixels can be classified otherwise.  
I couldn't find an exact match when I searched for someone doing this already, but I found this resource that may be helpful in your coding: https://www.spectralpython.net/algorithms.html

I've only used aerial nadir satellite or UAS collected NDVI data, so I'm not sure if things are 1:1 with what you're doing, but I've always encountered NDVI data is usually clustered around 0 with few outliers spanning to the -1 and 1 values.  In GIS you can manipulate the color ramps and the max / min values to emphasize variation in NDVI value, usually my threshold would be something like -.5 - +.5, even as precise as -.1 - + .1 for one project.  Since reflectance is a remotely sensed value I always assumed the lack of spread was due to distance away from the plant reflecting IR light, but that's just my own conjecture.  

I hope this helps!  I've learned most of what I know about remote sensing through my time with [NASA DEVELOP](https://develop.larc.nasa.gov/), if you want another resource of experts doing experimental multispectral work + thorough documentation!



[a1ahna](../profile/a1ahna) replying to: [NDVI Image Captures Non-Plant Objects](../notes/velahs/07-08-2020/ndvi-image-captures-non-plant-objects)

