---
cid: 27160
node: [What do I need to know before collecting soil for the Hanby soil testing kit?](../notes/CherokeeConcernedCitizens/06-13-2020/what-do-i-need-to-know-before-collecting-soil-for-the-hanby-soil-testing-kit)
nid: 23837
created_at: 2020-07-13 22:58:50 +0000
timestamp: 1594681130
uid: 569208
author: [DanielleS](../profile/DanielleS)
---

Hi [@CherokeeConcernedCitizens](/profile/CherokeeConcernedCitizens) 

the high vs low is about the level of contamination you expect. so if you were on a site there was an oil spill say, then use the high one. if on a residential site near an oil refinery, I would use the low one. 

after you have added the reagents and shaken it up, you can compare the color by holding it up against the guidebook they should have sent you. we found it helpful to take a picture with a cell phone of the vial held up against the closest match you can find in the book. the cell phone pic made it easier for the eye to see the color match.

Hanby also has a mobile app- you take a photo and crop--the app will look at its library of known contaminants. Here is a video walk through of how the Hanby Mobile App works: https://youtu.be/i2dyMhup9E4__

(We wrote a how to use the handby kit here in case its helpful, it includes a video and a link to download an app that helps you identify the contaminant levels: 
https://publiclab.org/notes/DanielleS/03-11-2019/how-to-use-a-hanby-kit-to-test-for-soil-petroleum-hydrocarbons) 

then interpretting the results and what levels of each contaminant are considered ok- here's some info about that, with a table with the different concentrations of each contaminant: https://publiclab.org/notes/DanielleS/04-12-2019/how-to-interpret-soil-test-results

 I'd be happy to talk about this over zoom or phone if you want too :) If you have a need for soil metal testing too I can do that for free through the lab I am in. 


[DanielleS](../profile/DanielleS) replying to: [What do I need to know before collecting soil for the Hanby soil testing kit?](../notes/CherokeeConcernedCitizens/06-13-2020/what-do-i-need-to-know-before-collecting-soil-for-the-hanby-soil-testing-kit)

