---
node: Climate Change and Environmental Justice:  How it impacts and continues to prove to be a disadvantage to the low income and minority population.
author: eustatic
created_at: 2020-11-17 00:45:05 +0000
timestamp: 1605573905
nid: 25060
cid: 27669
uid: 379
---



[eustatic](../profile/eustatic) replying to: [Climate Change and Environmental Justice:  How it impacts and continues to prove to be a disadvantage to the low income and minority population.](../notes/MyrnaRomo/11-14-2020/climate-change-and-environmental-justice-how-it-impacts-and-continues-to-prove-to-be-a-disadvantage-to-the-low-income-and-minority-population)

----
I think yes, you will find that there are environmental justice groups that the climate movement should regard as the leadership, but don't, because of silly ways that people think about the climate issue.  In the United States,  the CO2 in the air starts at the ground  level, where it is mixed with other Hazardous air pollutants that mostly pollute black and native american communities. 

The Formosa Plastics proposal, for example, would destroy African American historical sites that were erased by Jim Crow; it would also contribute 13 MT CO2e/yr, at a minimum, just as permitted--not a full carbon impact. That is more Carbon than most nations of the world.
https://www.stopformosa.org/

The Shintech expansion in Plaquemine, LA, would add a similar amount of carbon to the atmosphere.  it is located in a rural, black area in Louisiana.
http://www.justicemap.org/jtiny=13700

Many people will say that climate change is also about the land, and agriculture, but in the united states, agriculture is based on Petrochemical inputs, which are primarily made in Donaldsonville, LA, a black town in "Cancer Alley", which residents are now calling "Death Alley." 

The Environmental Integrity Project has comprehensive list of petrochemical expansions::
https://environmentalintegrity.org/oil-gas-infrastructure-emissions/

In a city context, like New Orleans, or Chicago, populations of color have been either pushed to live next to the highway, or the highway was built through their neighborhood, so that the large CO2 emissions from automobiles has a disparate impact on non-white urban residents' lung health.

All of these pollution sources also put out much Particulate Matter, which severely damages long-term lung health, which is needed to survive COVID, but also to thrive economically.  

We could all thrive, by making sure that the least of us has a right to a clean environment.  What matters in environmental justice communities are the most urgent issues facing the entire world.
