---
node: Counter-intuitive NDVI values in drought-stressed plants? (RPi NoIR v.2 with a red filter and artificial lighting)
author: cfastie
created_at: 2020-11-19 04:19:23 +0000
timestamp: 1605759563
nid: 25044
cid: 27678
uid: 554
---



[cfastie](../profile/cfastie) replying to: [Counter-intuitive NDVI values in drought-stressed plants? (RPi NoIR v.2 with a red filter and artificial lighting)](../notes/tumakin/11-11-2020/counter-intuitive-ndvi-values-in-drought-stressed-plants-rpi-noir-v-2-with-a-red-filter-and-artificial-lighting)

----
>Could you possibly point me to some literature regarding this?   

A lag between plant stress and NDVI response is commonly reported in the remote sensing literature: https://www.google.com/search?q=ndvi+stress+lag

> salt stress or nutrient deficiency/surplus would've revealed the differences better,  and  in a more "expected" manner.  

I don' t know why this type of stress would be different from water stress.

>Calibration or custom white balance?   ... I did also capture images of the same scene under only red and NIR light as well.  Should I use them to calculate the coefficients instead?  

The [key to calibration](https://publiclab.org/notes/cfastie/05-01-2016/calibration-cogitation) is knowing the reflectivity of your targets at the wavelengths used to compute NDVI (647nm, 843nm). I don't know if your method allowed you to know this.

>How much NIR does the camera capture?  Is it somehow possible to calculate the intensity?  

Using different spectrometers prevents you from knowing the relative intensity of the two light sources (unless there was overlap between the two sources and it was captured by both spectrometers).

>values represented with the dashed line (above 740nm) are indeed an estimate of  the transmission

You still have the filter so you can still measure its NIR transmission.

>This is based purely on my experimentation with the data, and I'm not sure  whether I can use it in my thesis  

You can use the result in your thesis if you can demonstrate that artifacts emerging from the combination of:  

1.  your imperfect method of computing NDVI  
2.  using your particular measure of plant area  
3.  the particular computation of your original index  

produce a conservative method of determining a difference between your treatments (i.e, a method not likely to show a difference when one is not there).

Otherwise it would be a classic case of [P-hacking](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Data_dredging).

Chris
