---
node: NIR Camera Calibration
author: nedhorning
created_at: 2012-12-19 13:58:41 +0000
timestamp: 1355925521
nid: 5257
cid: 2777
uid: 133
---



[nedhorning](../profile/nedhorning) replying to: [NIR Camera Calibration](../notes/babu/12-19-2012/nir-camera-calibration)

----
Hi Babu,

As I was writing this I see you got some good comments - here are some more. 

Lots of good questions. I'm also looking for answers to some of these questions and can fill you in on what I've learned so far.

Ideally we would calculate NDVI from radiance (what the sensor measures) but unless we have a way to calibrate the camera, a fairly complex process, that's not possible. An alternative is to develop methods to standardize or normalize NDVI images acquired using different IR cameras so they can be compared . I think white balance is one step to accomplish that but only if the NDVI images are created using similar bands (wavelength range) for the red and NIR layers. 

I haven't used a filter that passes red and NIR light but my guess is that it will be difficult to get a good red and NIR layer from your image for the reason you mention. Have you looked at the three individual image layers to see if they are very different. If you take a photo of green healthy vegetation a decent red band would be quite dark and the NIR band would be relatively bright for vegetated areas of the scene. If you don't have good enough differentiation to create NDVI images there are some other options you can try or you can use your converted camera with a NIR filter over the lens and a second unmodified camera for the red band. 

One of the other options is to play around with subtracting different layers (e.g., red-blue, green-red...) to see if the differenced images produce suitable layers for NDVI. It's quite possible that will work. I would also try setting white balance using a gray card and also green vegetation before taking your photos to see if that helps. 

I'd be happy to look at one of your images to see if they would work to make NDVI. 

I hope this helps,

Ned