---
node: On the need to answer multiple questions at once in the US Gulf Coast
author: kgradow1
created_at: 2020-12-17 21:54:53 +0000
timestamp: 1608242093
nid: 25288
cid: 27824
uid: 297929
---



[kgradow1](../profile/kgradow1) replying to: [On the need to answer multiple questions at once in the US Gulf Coast](../notes/eustatic/12-17-2020/on-the-need-to-answer-multiple-questions-at-once-in-the-us-gulf-coast)

----
Hi Scott, thank you for posting this.  I think this is one of the most important things that could be said about the practice of crafting a community air study and documenting it in the form of a manual.

The most effective documentation I've come across in the course of working on the bucket project is [Air Alliance Houston's Community Air Quality Toolkit](https://airalliancehouston.org/wp-content/uploads/2019/12/6_Community-Air-Quality-Advocacy-Toolkit.pdf), which is actually not an air monitoring guide at all (in the sense of doing a "study" or a "monitoring project") but a walkthrough of how to put pressure on local government officials who should be taking the initiative, but aren't. The fact that AAH felt they needed to put together such an exhaustive document about how to put pressure on local government officials really speaks to itself.  It's an incredible guide. 

I don't live in a fenceline community and much of what I've done for this project is simply collect resources that others have created and which already existed.  My sense -- and again, I don't know much, so take it with a grain of salt -- is that the purpose of the "scientific study" approach is as much about helping people feel comfortable getting started as it is about anything else.  That's certainly the gist of the [TERC manuals](https://publiclab.org/tag/statistics-for-action) I've been posting.  They are very "academic" in their orientation, but they were also drafted in collaboration with organizers who understood that the data problem was a political one, not a scientific one.  But yeah, it's certainly a tension. 

I really only found one manual, in the course of working on this project, that envisioned what they were doing as a strictly scientific project rather than a political one, and that project was completed in a well-resourced community that was not at the time suffering any direct chemical threat. I respect that approach, but I don't get the sense that it's a feasible one for most people, for all of the reasons you outline above.  




