---
node: How do I...
author: warren
created_at: 2020-12-19 21:40:04 +0000
timestamp: 1608414004
nid: 25257
cid: 27832
uid: 1
---



[warren](../profile/warren) replying to: [How do I...](../notes/akhila/12-15-2020/how-do-i)

----
Hi, [@akhila](/profile/akhila) - this is a really cool experiment you're doing! OK, i think i may have some suggestions that could help;

1. i think you may have a doubled-up spectrum as we shouldn't be seeing blue mixed between green and red lines; it should be very strictly blue, green, red, from left to right. So maybe there is either a light leak, or something is reflecting inside, or something? Can you share a pic of the inside of your spectrometer to help debug?
2. it looks like you're using a CFL fluorescent light in your comparisions. This is OK and can be helpful if you are generating fluorescence from your sample, because the fluorescence will appear in areas of your spectrum that are black (zero) in your control (i.e. only water). But often people use a full-spectrum light source for this, OR they use just an ultraviolet light if they expect fluorescence, because then there's only a single UV spike of input light, and all other light would be your sample fluorescing
3. as to the big difference you're seeing, the spectrum doubling/out-of-orderness makes this hard to read, but one thing to think about is that if you see a really big difference between two spectra, you should be able to see it with the naked eye, without a spectrometer. that is, the sample should visibly and noticeably glow a different color if the difference is really that big. Does it, in your case? 

I'd say maybe the ideal next steps would be to get your setup to the point where you are seeing a really consistent spectrum over 5 or more scans of plain water, and to then make a set of scans of your sample, once you figure out the doubling issue. It's always better to average a few scans to ensure you're getting repeated, consistent results, and not just some random reflection or fluke. Then we can really start to measure the difference. 

Great work so far! Keep it up and tell us how it goes, we can help troubleshoot more as well!