---
node: Everybody Struggles! - [Outreachy & Public Lab Internship] Blog #2
author: warren
created_at: 2021-01-08 23:15:42 +0000
timestamp: 1610147742
nid: 25436
cid: 27919
uid: 1
---



[warren](../profile/warren) replying to: [Everybody Struggles! - [Outreachy & Public Lab Internship] Blog #2](../notes/noi5e/01-08-2021/everybody-struggles-outreachy-public-lab-internship-blog-1)

----
AAhhhhhhh Keanu!!! <3

> JavaScript has no way of relaying that error back to Rails

Wow, this is really a good point, and I never thought of it. I hate when things fail silently. I wonder if Capybara or system tests have a way of intercepting JS error output!??

I was also thinking -- sometimes people write full stack tests first, then fill in at a more micro-level with unit tests later. While others like to build up "expected micro-behaviors" (just making up words here lol) and confirm them with unit tests, and eventually work up to whole complex interactive systems. I guess it's a stylistic or preference based thing. 

But I do want to say that I think it's really valuable to be digging into how things work by writing tests, even if yours didn't work out yet. 

I think here, we are kind of laying all kinds of system tests over the top of a kind of a mess (as you've seen as you dig into the code!) and then we're going to start tearing out the mess, and the system tests will help us see when what we've replaced it with can perform the same overall work -- from a naive, outside perspective, so to speak. Then, as we build it back up, we can lay in far more detailed unit tests for specific behaviors. That'll be really nice because one thing unit tests help us with is figuring out not just that something is broken but WHAT broke and WHERE in the code. They also are better at showing others (and ourselves) what the "ideal" way to use the code under the hood is. Whereas, in that vein, system tests kind of show us what the "ideal" way to use the whole system, as a user, in the real world. 

Both, of course, can also show specific ways NOT to use things, by having tests that confirm when things /should/ break. 

Finally, the unit tests will help /reusable/ code -- because you can write a unit test for a generalizable abstract behavior, rather than having to write exhaustive system tests for the messy and numerous ways things can go right or wrong in the "real world." 

Thanks for a fun and thoughtful blog post [@noi5e](/profile/noi5e)!!!