---
cid: 27988
node: [Know Your Audience - [Outreachy & Public Lab Internship] Blog #3](../notes/noi5e/01-20-2021/know-your-audience-outreachy-public-lab-internship-blog-3)
nid: 25507
created_at: 2021-01-21 17:45:03 +0000
timestamp: 1611251103
uid: 1
author: [warren](../profile/warren)
---

> Poo-gate

😂 😂 😂 

Regarding the `&` operator, i am 100% with you there... it took me FOREVER to figure that out because i basically couldn't figure out how to search for it, so i just waited until i saw it explained somewhere. Same thing for the syntax:

```
result = is_it_right ? its_right : its_wrong
```

i think that's called the "ternary operator"? but i can never remember. 

Or `||=` which can set defaults... like, `my_setting ||= "default value"` which sets a default only if `my_setting` doesn't already have a non-nil value. I have no idea what that operator is called!

Using these can make for really compact code, as you point out in your code golf reference -- but i'm wary of it sometimes as it reduces legibility, as you point out. Still, there are some which are just too useful to pass up -- like `array_of_objects.collect(&:id)` which outputs a new array of just the `id` attribute of each member of `array_of_objects`. I guess that's actually a different use of the `&` character... not sure what it's called either! It's extra confused by Ruby symbol syntax, which replaces strings in some scenarios -- using `:id` instead of `'id'` -- yikes. At least `.collect(&:attribute_name)` is not super difficult to read, since the word `collect` is helpful.

Anyhow, thanks for continuing to tell us how things are going through your fun-to-read blog posts!!! And keep up the great work!!!

[warren](../profile/warren) replying to: [Know Your Audience - [Outreachy & Public Lab Internship] Blog #3](../notes/noi5e/01-20-2021/know-your-audience-outreachy-public-lab-internship-blog-3)

