---
node: Portable Energy Scavenging Kit 0.1a
author: mathew
created_at: 2012-12-21 23:49:29 +0000
timestamp: 1356133769
nid: 5229
cid: 2806
uid: 4
---



[mathew](../profile/mathew) replying to: [Portable Energy Scavenging Kit 0.1a](../notes/donblair/12-17-2012/portable-energy-scavenging-kit-01a)

----
The Adafruit circuits are fairly inefficient, and in practice solar panels are already only like 10% efficient.  Story time:

Over two years ago I was working on a Maximum Peek Power Charging (MPPT) circuit for lithium ion batteries based around the LT3652.  The first set of boards I printed had a missing wire, and by the time I'd fixed it I was 1) busy writing grants for Public Lab in my free time rather than doing that, and 2) the dude who was letting me use his surface mount soldering gear turned out to be a crazy bank robber (true story).

so I dropped the project... I figured I was fighting uphill against the innovator's dilemma and that someone would have built such an OS MPPT circuit by now, but I can't find any such thing.

The files are on the Yahoo Charge Controller Group, and, using my admin privileges, attached to this research note.  I hear by bequeath them to you!

They include the circuits, parts lists and item#'s at Digikey, datasheets, and some other stuff. I actually don't know if the circuits really work, but the background work I did should give you a good start-- I built a spreadsheet around the parameters of the datasheet for picking components.

So rad you're working on this! the world needs a good, non-proprietary field charger for small electronics!