---
node: Does anyone have experience with remediation of contaminated soils? What are some different options?
author: DanielleS
created_at: 2021-02-16 21:18:38 +0000
timestamp: 1613510318
nid: 25638
cid: 28208
uid: 569208
---



[DanielleS](../profile/DanielleS) replying to: [Does anyone have experience with remediation of contaminated soils? What are some different options?](../notes/bhamster/02-09-2021/does-anyone-have-experience-with-remediation-of-contaminated-soils-what-are-some-different-options)

----
Yes I have worked on remediation of different kinds of contaminants, toxic wastes, and contaminated sites and waters, with fungi, plants, microbes and amendments and lead trainings on this. It really depends on the type and extent of the contamination. For example, hyperaccumulator plants are typically  used for extracting metals from soils, and amendments like the EDTA mentioned above or phosphate-rich materials can be applied to 'bind' up metals though not permanently. Decomposer fungi can be used in closed systems to degrade some organic contaminants like diesel oil or PAH's, as can certain bacteria. Often the most successful approaches are holistic and mimic ecology where many different organisms all play a role. An important thing to consider when working on remediation is how you will reduce harm - if you use plants to extract metals, what will you do with the plant material after? There are different ways to assess whether its working. Testing (sending samples to a lab for analysis) before and after treatment is a surefire way to see if its working, but in community settings in the past where I haven't had resources to pay for testing, I have worked with 'bioassays' with bean seeds, worms, or other ways of seeing if toxicity is being reduced. I  am including a link to a factsheet on bioremediation I made which includes plant lists for remediation. I have created manuals on myco-remediation that I really need to publish and on other types of remediation. Right now I am working on community studies of ecological /accessible remediation options because there are few case studies to draw on of these options being applied in real world contexts for us to learn from. (https://compost.bc.ca/wp-content/uploads/2020/09/19-Bioremediation_no-image.pdf)