---
cid: 2828
node: [NIR Camera Calibration](../notes/babu/12-19-2012/nir-camera-calibration)
nid: 5257
created_at: 2012-12-27 06:14:51 +0000
timestamp: 1356588891
uid: 46912
author: [Babu](../profile/Babu)
---

Thanks Chris for your nice comments and sugesstions.

I have some more confusion which i am looking to resolve. 
As i know Bayer filter used in this camera has two green, one red and one blue filter on top of CCD but as can be seen from the image acquired with the modife camera, the blue channel seems more sensitive to the NIR. Since the content of NIR in RED channel, Blue channel and green channels are not the same, normal substraction might not work well as you have said earlier. Instead there might be some relations which also considers the fact of Bayer filter operation would be required but i dont have any specific idea on it. 
As you mentioned the use of similar unmodified camera  for this purpose would be one of the way to validate whether the simple substraction to retrieve the RED channel might be very useful but i dont have the similar camera and different unmodified camera might not be proper for comparision. I would try my best to find the similar camera. If not possible to get the same camera, will it be effective to use some other DSLR camera from NIKON or Cannon???

As the lifepixel supplies the Transmission charecteristic of the filter  that i have used on this modified camera is not perfectly 100% for the whole range of NIR as can be seen from the link below.
http://www.lifepixel.com/infrared-photography-primer/ch4-internal-filters-for-modified-cameras-super-color-infrared-filter
the transmission charecteristic goes down to 80% in the NIR range so are there any methodology to compensate this degradation???

In addition when the picture is taken in different Exposure , the picture looks very different and the DN value in each channel also varies. So in such case, i might  also need look for the optimized exposure value for the camera. Any sugession on it??
In such situation do you have any specific recommendation, sugessions . Can you also recommend me some techniques using ASD field spectrometers which might be useful for this cae. 
Thanks for your nice generous comments and sugessions once again. Hope all of you have very nice time , Happy New year!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!

[Babu](../profile/Babu) replying to: [NIR Camera Calibration](../notes/babu/12-19-2012/nir-camera-calibration)

