---
cid: 2830
node: [NIR Camera Calibration](../notes/babu/12-19-2012/nir-camera-calibration)
nid: 5257
created_at: 2012-12-27 16:16:13 +0000
timestamp: 1356624973
uid: 554
author: [cfastie](../profile/cfastie)
---

Babu,

You might be right that the blue channel is more sensitive to NIR, based on the fact that the healthy foliage in your super blue photo has a bluish tinge. We know the red channel should be recording some NIR in addition to red, so why doesn’t the foliage appear reddish? The color in the final image is a combination of whatever is in all three channels, so there must be a lot of light getting through the blue Bayer filters. And I guess there must be more light getting through the blue Bayer filters than through the red Bayer filters. There is no blue or green light getting through your super blue filter, so all the light in the red and blue channels is red and NIR. Assuming there is very little red being reflected from healthy foliage, there must be more NIR being recorded by the blue channel than the red channel. But these differences are small (and my logic probably flawed), so it might be that the blue tinge is just an artifact of white balance.  You could test this by repeating the photo with different white balance settings. 

The camera you use to take a normal version of your super blue photo does not have to be identical to the super blue camera. The most important thing is to be able to register it very well with the super blue photo. That means the focal length and the resolution should be very close. You could resample both images to the same pixel resolution after they are taken. You just need a normal red data channel for each pixel of the super blue image.

The pattern of IR transmission of the super blue filter probably does not matter much.  When NDVI is computed from modern satellite data, the NIR band used is very narrow, just a few dozen nm.  We cannot replicate that, so we use the very wide NIR band we can get from a camera.  The important thing is to make sure there is not much red data in the NIR band you are using. That is your main problem.

I don’t know why the super blue photo would look different at different exposures unless maybe automatic white balance was on.

I don’t know what ASD field spectrometers are.

Chris


[cfastie](../profile/cfastie) replying to: [NIR Camera Calibration](../notes/babu/12-19-2012/nir-camera-calibration)

