---
node: GSoC 2021 Proposal: spectral-workbench.js JS/Rails integration
author: warren
created_at: 2021-04-09 18:44:14 +0000
timestamp: 1617993854
nid: 26134
cid: 28487
uid: 1
---



[warren](../profile/warren) replying to: [GSoC 2021 Proposal: spectral-workbench.js JS/Rails integration](../notes/waridrox/04-03-2021/gsoc-2021-proposal-spectral-workbench-js-js-rails-integration)

----
Great work on this proposal, I super appreciate it's detail and care. 

Your assessment is spot on and I like the different aspects of this you've covered. A few notes!

- i think we've discussed this a bit but maybe it's good to note that we can run both the new and old capture interfaces at the same time while improving the new v2 one gradually. This will let us do it in sections, starting with basic integration and gradually adding the extra interactive features, without compromising the existing working v1 system. The new one can live at something like /v2/capture, perhaps, until it's mature! 🐤 
- I love your attention to details like the scaling, the "navigating away from this page" and other things.
- just a HUGE HOORAY for your focus on accessibility. Making this system work well for screen readers, and thinking about accessibility as a core functionality is *excellent* and i commend you for this! Love it! Please check out last summer's project on accessibility to see some interesting ways to audit accessibility, and it might be interesting to look at broader resources around other kinds of accessibility too!
- finally, much appreciation for your timeline for being very readable and visually compelling. (although not as accessible to screen readers, but still very nice!)

Thanks again for your proposal!!!