---
node: Outreachy proposal: Tag/topic system refinements
author: warren
created_at: 2021-04-29 16:09:05 +0000
timestamp: 1619712545
nid: 26380
cid: 28658
uid: 1
---



[warren](../profile/warren) replying to: [Outreachy proposal: Tag/topic system refinements](../notes/aliciapaz/04-28-2021/outreachy-proposal-tag-topic-system-refinements)

----
> Also, since this bug has been fixed before and then re-opened, improving the tests related to this feature will help to reinforce the fix and quickly catch bugs in the future, if they arise. This improvement includes generating better data for such tests.

This is really a great observation. We've been really challenged to reproduce the error except using our testing servers like http://unstable.publiclab.org/ and http://stable.publiclab.org/, with a full copy of the live database. I'm really not sure what the issue is and to complicate things there are small differences in the databases we use and their versions and configuration. Ironing this all out may help!

> mis-sorted tags by uses

Here you're totally right, good eye! The query is pretty complex. We cache the count, but probably not consistently enough. Here again tests may help!

Super impressed and appreciative of your database mapping approach and agree with this:

> ...involve understanding the models and associations between them. I noticed that the only way to get the "big picture" of how the database is organized, is by looking at the Public's Lab Data Model, which is a great place to start but is not detailed enough for someone trying to go deeper.

Great observations and direction here. 

> A further extension of the feature would be to implement something more interactive/graphical like using a filtered version of the Cytoscape visualization to dynamically generate a topic tree.

This is great and i appreciate that you're prioritizing the basic version and imagining a more expanded "next step"! Good project organization.

Great proposal! I'm curious, what areas do you have questions about? What is the part of the project you're most excited about?

Thank you!