---
node: Outreachy proposal: Tag/topic system refinements
author: aliciapaz
created_at: 2021-05-06 20:20:20 +0000
timestamp: 1620332420
nid: 26380
cid: 28716
uid: 752301
---



[aliciapaz](../profile/aliciapaz) replying to: [Outreachy proposal: Tag/topic system refinements](../notes/aliciapaz/04-28-2021/outreachy-proposal-tag-topic-system-refinements)

----
Hi [@ruthnwaiganjo](/profile/ruthnwaiganjo), thanks for your detailed feedback! 

I'm planning to write both unit and integration / functional tests (I'm not sure I really understand the difference between the latter two...as far as I know, integration ensures that the pieces work well together, while functional looks at the final result in the production environment, without caring about how that result is produced). I think that unit and integration tests will be especially helpful for the bug fixes, while integration and functional tests will be most important for the new features.

About accessibility, I'll definitely give it a deeper thought but this is what I can think of now: 
- Using semantic HTML tags
- ensuring that all buttons and other UI elements are accessible through the keyboard and on touch devices.
- Ensuring that if an element changes dynamically, a visually impaired person will be able to know about it (particularly important for the Cytoscape view!)
- Using accessible color combinations.  

About the checkbox, to be honest, I saw it in an example when gathering references and I liked it, but I don't think it is necessarily better than just a regular dropdown like you say, which will probably do the job just fine. Perhaps checkboxes can cause confusion, which gives me reason to use a normal dropdown instead.

And the last thing, I believe the query wouldn't be so different from the one described. This is what I would do:
- Query the user table to find the id's of all banned users. Using 'pluck' we could get these ids in the form of an array.
- Query the community_tag table to find all tags where the uid is in the array returned above.

I would need to read some documentation about how to do this on the production database without putting the rest of the data at risk.  