---
cid: 28772
node: [Best Method(s) of Datalogging Location in the Field Without Cell Reception?](../notes/sarasage/05-11-2021/best-method-s-of-datalogging-location-in-the-field-without-cell-reception)
nid: 26556
created_at: 2021-05-14 00:31:26 +0000
timestamp: 1620952286
uid: 554
author: [cfastie](../profile/cfastie)
---

Hi Sara, 

Just about any handheld GPS device (e.g., Garmin) or any GPS app for a phone (I use GeoTracker) will record a track. The GPS coordinates and time stamp are recorded every interval (user selected). No cellular or WiFi connection is needed to record such a GPS track (only GPS reception which is everywhere). The resulting data file can be opened in Excel, Google Earth, etc. Transferring the GPS data to your separate air quality data file will require some data management skill (the time stamps will not be identical, so some programming or manual manipulation might be needed).

You can find other devices that will record a GPS track (a file of time stamps and GPS coordinates). I built one to attach to my kite photography rigs (https://publiclab.org/wiki/skypod-gps-logger).

It is straightforward to add a GPS module to any Arduino data logger so the GPS coordinates will be recorded every time the sensor data are saved. But I assume your air quality data logger is not an Arduino device. So it might not be straightforward to add a GPS module to it.  It is possible that your air quality device could send its data to an Arduino device (which could have a GPS module), but that might be tricky with a proprietary device. 

It sounds like a simple solution is to record a GPS track on your phone while you are recording air quality data with the device. Then get both data files into Excel and figure out how to match up the time stamps (messy, but doable).

Chris


[cfastie](../profile/cfastie) replying to: [Best Method(s) of Datalogging Location in the Field Without Cell Reception?](../notes/sarasage/05-11-2021/best-method-s-of-datalogging-location-in-the-field-without-cell-reception)

