---
cid: 28844
node: [Thinking about local level advocacy](../notes/stevie/03-20-2017/thinking-about-local-level-advocacy)
nid: 14041
created_at: 2021-05-27 21:22:57 +0000
timestamp: 1622150577
uid: 756220
author: [julia_e_masters](../profile/julia_e_masters)
---

My work for the last year has been to help cities and town write climate action and implementation plans.  Some of them (like small towns in Massachusetts) are ambitious despite their size, and others (like San Antonio [https://sanantonioreport.org/actionable-sustainability-critical-for-san-antonios-future]()) have larger impact.

Some learnings I've noticed since helping wide-ranging govs tackle these issues is the importance of language and messaging.  Some communities resonate strongly with clean energy projects, feeling empowered by the idea of cutting emissions and focusing on strategies to do so.  Other communities are more resistant to the framing, naming it as sacrificial and unrealistic.  For communities like the latter, we've learned that speaking about economic benefits and personal experiences with changes in their enviornment (i.e. a river is dried up, more storms than usual), this can help connect the dots of this large problem of climate change with the localized solutions.  I absolutely agree there's a sweet spot between achievable and the possible, and I think many local governments feel empowered to push that.  For example, a number of localities are taking bold steps to imbed racial justice [principles](https://www.greenbiz.com/article/8-cities-share-how-racial-justice-embedded-their-climate-plans) in their climate action plans - shifting the threshold to uplift different forms of justice and equity.

[julia_e_masters](../profile/julia_e_masters) replying to: [Thinking about local level advocacy](../notes/stevie/03-20-2017/thinking-about-local-level-advocacy)

