---
node: What are some observable tell-tale signs of wastewater pollution?
author: jesseslone
created_at: 2021-08-04 19:20:24 +0000
timestamp: 1628104824
nid: 27373
cid: 29094
uid: 494770
---



[jesseslone](../profile/jesseslone) replying to: [What are some observable tell-tale signs of wastewater pollution?](../notes/bhamster/07-28-2021/what-are-some-observable-tell-tale-signs-of-wastewater-pollution)

----
Yes, properly treated wastewater should ideally smell like a forrest stream... clean and possibly a little earthy.  Also, I should note that my expertise is in organic wastewater.  I don't know much about treating wastewater from industrial plants, except food processing plants.

That being said, here are some indicators that are visible in the discharge area:

A sickeningly sweet smell:  The plant is septic (no oxygen) and the result is carbohydrate chains that smell sweet in the effluent (discharge water).

Milky or light grey or brown discharge (high turbidity):  Under-treated wastewater.  Residential or Municipal wastewater is often just a light brown or grey color.  In the treatment plant, bacterial colonies (flock) should capture these suspended solids, if they aren't, there's either too much flow for capacity (common in surges), or the bacterial microbiome in the treatment reactors is not healthy.

Rotten egg smell:  This is also under-treated wastewater that has a high concentration of hydrogen sulphide producing bacteria.  Most commonly associated with sewer collection systems and pump stations, it is due to the way that biofilms in the pipes develop when there is insufficient oxygen in the sewer to promote aerobic biofilms.  The ebb and flow of water usage cycles provides the ideal environment to form the biofilm.

Lots of green algae growing on the surfaces around the discharge:  Not necessarily a bad thing, it just indicates the presence of nitrate and nitrite in the wastewater.  The problem with higher levels of nitrogen in the discharge is that it can cause "bloom" events which can starve the receiving waters of enough oxygen for fish and other aquatic life.

Dark brown to black mud around the discharge area:  This is an indication that wastewater biosolids are coming out in the effluent.  This can happen due to surges, insufficient biosolid removal (often called sludge wasting), or poor settling in the clarifier (the part of the plant that separates bacterial flock from the treated water so that the bacteria can be recycled).

Perhaps we could work up some sort of visual decision tree to help diagnose why treatment plants are underperforming?  I'm still trying to figure out ways to help operators and community members work together for the good of receiving waters.