---
cid: 29126
node: [Is there a correlation between humidity and particulates in the air?](../notes/sarasage/08-10-2021/is-there-a-correlation-between-humidity-and-particulates-in-the-air)
nid: 27451
created_at: 2021-08-12 14:45:16 +0000
timestamp: 1628779516
uid: 1
author: [warren](../profile/warren)
---

Hi Sara!

Yes, in two broad ways that I've seen -- both in being able to distinguish particulates /from/ humidity, and potentially in humidity affecting how much particulate is actually in the air. 

For example breathing into a Plantower/Simple Air Sensor/Purple Air will spike the detected particulates. I believe this is because the droplets of moisture are big enough to be detected and assumed to be particulates (literally they are, in a sense, just particles of water). Using a room mister (humidifier) can cause the same.

Humid days are sometimes strongly correlated with high particulate readings from this type of device (laser-based particle counters). But it's hard to say if that's because humidity is increasing the actual particulate count somehow, or if it's just setting off the sensors with tiny water droplets. 

One theory could be that humidity may form around particulates (which is almost a 3rd scenario - particulate in the air causing mist/fog??) but, if that increases their weight (they get wet), maybe they'd be more likely to fall out of the air sooner. 

I think there are papers about this and some devices dry out the air with a heater (or dry out the samples) before measurement. 

There's some discussion of this by [@Jdahlen](/profile/Jdahlen) [@jefffalk](/profile/jefffalk) [@DavidMack](/profile/DavidMack) here:

https://publiclab.org/notes/Jdahlen/06-24-2014/dissecting-humidity-from-particle-count-in-frac-sand-sampling

Also some including input from [@crispinpierce](/profile/crispinpierce) here:

https://publiclab.org/questions/warren/06-24-2019/how-could-we-design-a-group-activity-around-siting-air-sensors

Interesting notes on humidity being less of an issue than fog, from [@lincomatic](/profile/lincomatic) and notes from [@guolivar](/profile/guolivar):

https://publiclab.org/notes/guolivar/01-08-2018/thoughts-on-low-cost-air-quality-sensors#c21461

Very in-depth discussion of humidity here too!

https://publiclab.org/questions/stevie/06-30-2017/is-it-important-to-account-for-humidity-using-optical-particulate-matter-monitors

Hope this helps!!

[warren](../profile/warren) replying to: [Is there a correlation between humidity and particulates in the air?](../notes/sarasage/08-10-2021/is-there-a-correlation-between-humidity-and-particulates-in-the-air)

