---
node: How to report pollution entering your local stormwater system in the US
author: bhamster
created_at: 2021-09-15 16:15:04 +0000
timestamp: 1631722504
nid: 27606
cid: 29242
uid: 664477
---



[bhamster](../profile/bhamster) replying to: [How to report pollution entering your local stormwater system in the US](../notes/bhamster/08-20-2021/how-to-report-pollution-entering-your-local-stormwater-system-in-the-us)

----
I recently was fortunate to talk with Kirsten McDade, who creates community programs on stormwater monitoring at [RE-Sources](https://www.re-sources.org/). She had some excellent tips on several places to report stormwater issues, and the benefits of each:

1. The municipal pollution hotline (Step 4 above), required under an MS4 permit. This might result in the fastest response as the city often has necessary equipment on hand.  
2. Environmental agencies in your county or state. Washington state, for example, has an [environmental report tracking system (ERTS) here](https://ecology.wa.gov/Footer/Report-an-environmental-issue/statewide-issue-reporting-form). They may be helpful in cases where you aren’t sure who’s supposed to handle the pollution, or if the city or other permit owner is unresponsive. The state is responsible for holding permit owners accountable. 
3. [Waterkeeper organizations!](https://waterkeeper.org/) They are also required to have a pollution reporting hotline. Kirsten’s organization is a Waterkeeper, and contacting someone like her is helpful because she knows who best to contact in a given situation. She can also keep contacting people until the problem is fixed, raise public awareness of an issue, and ultimately help prevent similar issues from happening again. Knowing where residents are reporting stormwater issues can inform Waterkeeper community monitoring programs, as well.