---
node: Ida early response
author: eustatic
created_at: 2021-09-16 16:51:38 +0000
timestamp: 1631811098
nid: 27631
cid: 29244
uid: 379
---



[eustatic](../profile/eustatic) replying to: [Ida early response](../notes/eustatic/08-29-2021/ida-early-response)

----
https://cartosco.pe/Ida

Please Consider Helping Community Based Approaches to Hurricane Ida Recovery and a Future of Climate Justice in the Communities Most Devastated

Throughout the Lowlands and River Parishes homes and businesses have been destroyed and often minimal public services have not been restored. The Greater New Orleans Interfaith Climate Coalition asks that you consider supporting recovery and climate justice work in the communities that have been most impacted.

1.      Concerned Citizens of St. John the Baptist Leader Mr. Robert Taylor’s Home needs massive cleanup, tear down and rebuilding. You can help at  Taylor Family Personal GoFundMe

2.    RISE St. James Founder and Leader Ms. Sharon Lavigne’s home has been badly damaged. You can help at Sharon Lavigne's Personal GoFundMe

3.    Rise St. James also has a community recovery and climate justice fund. You can help at Rise St James Ida Recovery Fund

4.    Inclusive Louisiana Leaders Ms. Barbara Washington and Ms. Gail LeBoeuf are working to support recovery in several small communities in the River Parishes which have been badly hit, while fighting to reduce chemical toxins and particulate matter in the air. You can support them at Inclusive Louisiana Fundraiser

5.    The Descendants Project is also working for recovery in the River Parishes. You can support at The Descendants Project

6.    Toi Carter of Extinction Rebellion has been organizing the delivery of supplies and work teams since the Hurricane was over and is working directly to support the above. To help her provide supplies you can contribute to Toi Carter’s personal Venmo: [@toijeancarter](/profile/toijeancarter) (used to purchase supplies and reimburse other people who have been buying supplies). Toi would also welcome your help in delivering supplies, providing labor for tear down and tarping, carpentry, delivering hot meals and more. Contact her at toijeancarter@gmail.com.

7.    The Greater New Orleans Interfaith Climate Coalition committed $10,000 to the Lowlander Center for emergency help and to build a recovery centered on climate justice. You can contribute directly to the Lowlander Center at www.gnoicc.org by using the donate button. All contributions since the Hurricane until October 1 will go to the Lowlander Center for recovery and climate justice work.

8.    Concerned Citizens of St. John’s continue their fight for climate justice despite the destruction around them. You can help at https://www.ccosj.com/

Thanks so much for your consideration!