---
cid: 29276
node: [What can you do about oil in your ditch following a natural disaster when traditional resources/normal pathways are not available?](../notes/laurel_mire/09-20-2021/what-can-you-do-about-oil-in-your-ditch-following-a-natural-disaster-when-traditional-resources-normal-pathways-are-not-available)
nid: 27734
created_at: 2021-09-28 18:42:55 +0000
timestamp: 1632854575
uid: 759178
author: [laurel_mire](../profile/laurel_mire)
---

Thanks to all who have contributed to this question! I didn't know about the gas chromatography-mass spectrometry method but found a good overview here [https://www.azolifesciences.com/article/What-is-Gas-Chromatography-Mass-Spectrometry-(GC-MS).aspx] that helped me. Because the amount of oil was so small and resources limited following the storm, my primary goal was just to clean it up if possible rather than test and source it. I just spoke to Mr Austin from the NY State Dept of Environmental Conservation who gave me some good info and ultimately put my mind at ease. For an amount of oil in water as small as I was seeing, he said nature taking its course is your best option. Trying to collect it to either test or dispose of it myself would be difficult because of its small amount and tendency to simply breakup. Small oil sheens will evaporate, decompose, and otherwise break up on their own pretty quickly. To hurry this along, you can swirl it around in the water yourself if you want to. He said such a small amount of oil is truly a drop in the bucket. He said the only reason to be concerned is if an oil sheen is 1) heavy (purples and bronze as [@liz](/profile/liz) mentioned) and 2) persistent. Mine was neither, and was gone after two days. He also mentioned that if you see an oil sheen on a hard surface (ie not water), you can spread kitty litter over it which will absorb the oil and then can be tossed out with your normal garbage. 

[laurel_mire](../profile/laurel_mire) replying to: [What can you do about oil in your ditch following a natural disaster when traditional resources/normal pathways are not available?](../notes/laurel_mire/09-20-2021/what-can-you-do-about-oil-in-your-ditch-following-a-natural-disaster-when-traditional-resources-normal-pathways-are-not-available)

