---
node: I know that this project is a while in the past, but I hope the potentiostat can be resurrected...
author: JSummers
created_at: 2021-09-30 19:37:11 +0000
timestamp: 1633030631
nid: 27812
cid: 29287
uid: 304279
---



[JSummers](../profile/JSummers) replying to: [I know that this project is a while in the past, but I hope the potentiostat can be resurrected...](../notes/nitrous2022/09-29-2021/i-know-that-this-project-is-a-while-in-the-past-but-i-hope-the-potentiostat-can-be-resurrected)

----
Hi Doug,
I would be happy to help you.
Here is the status of the potentiostat project:
Our original design was limited to outputting +/- 1.65 volts on the working and counter electrodes. I could easily send you one of these, but the second design (model 7) was much improved, being able to output +/- 5 volts on the working electrode and +/-12 on the counter electrode.  If you look at my website, it says the model 7 is sold out but I recently found a few circuit boards and could put one together for you if you wish.  The major limitation of the model 7 was the current limit (about +/- 7 mA).  People complained because they wanted to do electrochemical synthesis with hundreds of mA.  Other people wanted to do high frequency work for electrochemical impedence spectroscopy for corrosion analysis, I guess.  I have been working on the design for a third model which will be able to run about +/- 300 mA and be able to do the EIS work.  Anyway, I hesitate to have a bunch of the model 7 circuits fabricated since I am close to finishing the newer model.  right now, there is a prototype potentiostat sitting on my kitchen table that needs firmware code written for it.  Once it has firmware, it will need to be tested and I will need to update the user interface.  I built this prototype over the summer and then I got sidetracked working on a spectroscopy project.    Let me know what you are interested in doing and I will give you my opinion of the best way to proceed.
Best,
Jack