---
node: Outreachy proposal: Rebuilding Spectral Workbench capture and analysis interface
author: warren
created_at: 2021-11-04 16:17:46 +0000
timestamp: 1636042666
nid: 28042
cid: 29393
uid: 1
---



[warren](../profile/warren) replying to: [Outreachy proposal: Rebuilding Spectral Workbench capture and analysis interface](../notes/pzgeorjane/11-02-2021/outreachy-proposal-rebuilding-spectral-workbench-capture-and-analysis-interface)

----
Hi [@pzgeorjane](/profile/pzgeorjane) there are a lot of great ideas in here, thanks for your proposal! I was thinking about a few of them --

- one small thing is that the "noise reduction" we're looking for is in the spectrum curve that's graphed, so it's not an audio type of noise, but more the "wigglyness" of the graph line. We have a post-capture version of this, which I believe just averages several pixels of the image (vertically) to reduce the faint flicker you get with cheaper video cameras. You can see this on pages like https://spectralworkbench.org/spectrums/230019 (although you can't do it yourself on this image because the "fork spectrum" button is broken 😭 but you could upload your own). The version for live capture would just do this in real-time - graph not just the top line of pixels in the image, but the average of the top 3, for example. Does that make sense? Honestly it's kind of an interesting idea to use audio processing to do this. But I think for this one case, it might be simpler to change the math in this section with a parameter like 'numberOfLines' - so it could fetch more than just one line of the image: https://github.com/publiclab/spectral-workbench.js/blob/bf7e96e83903e86132764ef3ed19fc50ca9f5eb1/examples/capture/getRow.js#L30-L46 
- I like your plan for Safari compatibility. I think first thing is trying to reproduce the issue we saw. Do you have access to any iOS device? If not then, as part of the internship we would try to get one, maybe a used one? But I don't know if mailing one could work or not. It's annoying but i've borrowed one in the past, or even used one in a shop for a few minutes. But that doesn't sound very efficient, so we're happy to try to figure out another way. One possibility is, are there any remote-access iOS services online, where we could log into an iOS device remotely? Maybe this could be an option if the simulators can't completely reproduce the error. 
- I appreciate how you've incorporated documentation and FTOs into your plan! Great work there!

That's my initial thoughts, but i'll keep thinking on this. Do you have any questions for us? Thanks!