---
cid: 29423
node: [Enforcement on inactive permits?](../notes/ekpeterman/10-28-2021/enforcement-on-inactive-permits)
nid: 27972
created_at: 2021-11-09 20:59:16 +0000
timestamp: 1636491556
uid: 422561
author: [stevie](../profile/stevie)
---

here is one from [@Pat](/profile/Pat) that came in Via email:

In Wisconsin, responsibility for reclamation lies with the Land Conservation Dept. and the Director in each county. Reclamation follows NR135 guidelines. You can find out more about NR135 guidelines in WI by just entering NR135 in a google box, and the entire ruling will pop up. Last spring, the non-metallic mining director located at the DNR in WI (La Crosse--Roberta Walls) wrote a white paper attempting to make NR 135 interpretation even more clear to land conservation agents and the public. The public and the industry were invited to critique the paper. About 70 people or companies responded to the work she had done. Recently I wrote to her asking for feedback. She told me she had made some revisions but due to other work she had to complete, the public might not receive her comments until the end of the year. This week I learned that on Nov. 11, there will be a Advisory board meeting from 9-3 on her reclamation comments.. I will attend virtually so will be able to listen in and make a public comment if I desire near the end. 

Because the County is responsible for seeing that reclamation occurs, filing lawsuits with the company (after negotiations) could be an option. It is required there be funding in the form of a bond or cash before the original permit is issued and each year thereafter. Whether or not those reclamation fees are paid, there should be no other option but to move ahead. However, sometimes the landowner(s) and the company do not agree on land use. Conflicts can also occur with the town ordinances or there isn't enough money. I don't think actually we have seen the tip of the iceberg in terms of the conflicts that can occur over time. The company could just walk and if that occurs the county might be responsible unless it is found the landowner has some responsibility to the reclamation process. Funding could come back to rest on the taxpayer. 
While these mines are open to the winds/water and the impacts of erosion, any violations must be reported for follow-up by the county or by the state. Citizen efforts are absolutely critical during these monitoring times. The Sand Sentinel Program can be used to make such a report to responsible parties but citizens should be trained and provided with materials they can use to do such reporting.
I don't believe there are any simple answers. The judge and the jury are still out on what is expected; meanwhile these huge monstrosities can be idle for years without action. Activists have to stay "active"   so that no one loses sight of the responsibility of the company, the landowner if the land has been leased, and the county and state officials who have been delegated the power to "take care" of reclamation activities. 
Before NR135 was enacted years ago, sand and gravel pits did not have to be reclaimed. There are still deep holes in the landscape with all the mining of aggregates that occurred. Law or not, there are lots of questions, concerns and frac sand mining issues are open for litigation and testing to make sure reclamation works! 

[stevie](../profile/stevie) replying to: [Enforcement on inactive permits?](../notes/ekpeterman/10-28-2021/enforcement-on-inactive-permits)

