---
node: St. John STEM MAGNET - Microplastics and the Mississippi River
author: dragonrylee
created_at: 2022-02-23 16:11:14 +0000
timestamp: 1645632674
nid: 28497
cid: 29712
uid: 788860
---



[dragonrylee](../profile/dragonrylee) replying to: [St. John STEM MAGNET - Microplastics and the Mississippi River](../notes/Kwame/12-15-2021/st-john-stem-magnet-microplastics-and-the-mississippi-river)

----
Microplastics cause damage to human cells in the laboratory at the levels known to be eaten by people via their food, a study has found. They found specific types of harm were caused by the levels of microplastics that people ingest. In the first video, the man uses himself as a lab rat. He tested how many microplastic pollutants there are in his body. Then he ate and drank out of everything that's plastic, used everything that's plastic. Then, he tested himself again  just to see how many microplastic pollutants there are in his body after as well. And just as he expected, there were a lot more in his body than before. He also talked about how there's microplastics in all bottled water. I learned that freezing a water bottle or heating it up, such as; being in a car for too long, releases chemicals from out the container into the water. When you drink that water, you are increasing your cancer risk as well. We also talked about the difference between traditional and non-traditional plastics. Traditional plastic is made from petroleum-based raw materials (Walmart bags, bottled water). Non-traditional plastics are are biodegradable or compostable plastics made from natural substances instead of petroleum (glass, stainless steel). We also talked about Nano plastics. Nano plastics are extremely small pieces or particles of plastic resulting from the disposal or breakdown of plastic products and constituting debris or pollution, especially in a marine environment.