---
node: Can DIY spectrometers be useful for pH determination and/or dissolved organic carbon of a water solution?
author: warren
created_at: 2022-03-02 15:16:09 +0000
timestamp: 1646234169
nid: 30090
cid: 29732
uid: 1
---



[warren](../profile/warren) replying to: [Can DIY spectrometers be useful for pH determination and/or dissolved organic carbon of a water solution?](../notes/alejobonifacio/03-02-2022/can-diy-spectrometers-be-useful-for-ph-determination-and-or-dissolved-organic-carbon-of-a-water-solution)

----
This seems like a great application and very feasible. Indeed the color/sensitivity range of anthocyanin in cabbage juice is really huge. 533 is in the green range, right? I'm a little skeptical that just absorbance in one color is the best way to go; it sounds like they just had a spectrometer, and traditional scientific methodology is to find one wavelength and try to build knowledge within it. That's partially just how old spectrometers are built rather than it being the ideal approach. Cabbage juice changes color across a wide range of colors, so my intuition is that actually measuring the hue would be a better match. The danger with just one color is that we lose sensitivity when the hue change is occurring far away from the chosen wavelength -- maybe the dynamic range is worse at the extremes. That might kind of explain why they chose a color roughly in the middle of the range, to try to have no hues too far away from the measurement wavelength. 

So that makes me think - what about just hue measurement using a controlled angle/color/intensity of light and a camera? Or just use the spectrometer and measure the relative hue shift by looking across the whole spectrum? Could you find the "median" hue of a spectrum? I could imagine a standard equation for this.
 
> I was doing some tests in the spectral workbench and noticed that for each wavelength there are 3 values, red, green and blue. Are there some ways to change these values to absorbance measurements? because, in the paper use this unit measurement.


The way to do this is to develop a scale through testing. So pre-mix some pH solutions bracketing your ideal range - from 2 to 11, maybe... 5 different values? And scan them, then to copy the paper, you'd look at the intensity at 533. You should be able to establish a scale, and it may not be linear. But since the spectrometer is not measuring absolute units of brightness, you need to use this technique to scale your data to a set of reference values.
 
> The other thing that I would like to achieve is to determine the dissolved organic carbon (DOC) of a water sample also with a spectrometer. This is a good tool for community science because you need no reagents. The only thing that I don’t know if it is possible with DIY spectrometer is to measure in the UV wavelength, because the DOC is measured at 254 nm (Evaluation of Specific Ultraviolet Absorbance as an Indicator of the Chemical Composition and Reactivity of Dissolved Organic Carbon | Environmental Science & Technology (acs.org)).


254 is really low. LEDs we've bought have gone only as low as 360. I have found some "UVC" bulbs for disinfecting stuff down lower. Just looking now, it seems like COVID has helped us, both LED and quartz bulbs:

- this is overkill but 254 https://www.walmart.com/ip/Clearance-Led-UVC-Light-60W-UV-Germicidal-Lamp-Led-UVC-Light-Bulb-E26-E27/570878328
- background on UVC LEDs: https://klaran.com/how-a-uvc-led-works
- here are smaller 254nm bulbs for $5/each https://www.ebay.com/itm/174646112679
- 260-280nm: https://www.ebay.com/itm/284372782176
- 254nm wand: https://www.ebay.com/itm/304095140283