---
node: St. John STEM MAGNET - Microplastics and the Mississippi River
author: chall0105
created_at: 2022-03-18 14:55:08 +0000
timestamp: 1647615308
nid: 28497
cid: 29832
uid: 781900
---



[chall0105](../profile/chall0105) replying to: [St. John STEM MAGNET - Microplastics and the Mississippi River](../notes/Kwame/12-15-2021/st-john-stem-magnet-microplastics-and-the-mississippi-river)

----
Caleb Hall- 3/18/2022- Plastics in the Gut
      According to the article _Plastics in the Gut_ by Max Liboiron, microplastic pollution has been found inside the guts of fish, and not only there. After microplastics became a somewhat popular topic people began to look for them, and they found them just about everywhere they looked. They found microplastics in Artic ice, in salt deposits, in the Mariana Trench, in birds, humans, and even in water samples from the 1970's. Its not just what where thee microplastics are, but more importantly its about what these microplastics can do. The scary part about that is that we don't know; we haven't studies microplastics long enough to understand the health effects they have on animals or humans.
      At the current time, we can do much to actually remove them from the water. We can get filter water samples and eventually find microplastics, but there's no large filtration plant removing large amounts from the water. Also, with the way we're going we'll never be able to remove more plastic than what gets dumped each year. Last year alone America generated 35.7 million tons of plastic, most of which is designed as single use disposable plastic which eventually ends up in landfills or our oceans. So the only way to prevent more microplastics from entering our ecosystems and bodies is for communities, companies and governments to do whatever they can to prevent as much manufacture of plastic as possible and do our best to make sure any that is manufactured is properly disposed of.