---
node: St. John STEM MAGNET - Microplastics and the Mississippi River
author: adison1cooper
created_at: 2022-03-31 15:06:34 +0000
timestamp: 1648739194
nid: 28497
cid: 29888
uid: 788861
---



[adison1cooper](../profile/adison1cooper) replying to: [St. John STEM MAGNET - Microplastics and the Mississippi River](../notes/Kwame/12-15-2021/st-john-stem-magnet-microplastics-and-the-mississippi-river)

----
Adison Cooper 
3/31/22

A microplastic is a piece of plastic that has been eroded to a size of 5mm or smaller and has become ubiquitous. 

 

(Article 1) Recently, scientists have discovered plastics in our blood stream.  While this discovery is not surprising, it should be concerning. Plastics in our blood should concern us because this means that plastics from our world are not all completely filtered by our lungs and gut. We should also understand that although they have not yet been determined, we know that something foreign invading our bodies at such a high percentage is bound to have adverse effects. Since the discovery is new, more information on the plastics in our blood is not completely explained or discovered. Therefore, there will need to be more research and more studies before any real actions are taken or any real threat is determined and published. 

 

(Video 1) In a study to determine whether plastics are in the human bloodstream 22 blood samples were tested. These blood samples were donated and anonymous. Using the video’s results as a base line, one can infer that about 77.3 percent of people have plastics in their bloodstream.  

 

(Video 2) Plastic particles may even get lodged in our organs. The most common plastic found in human blood was that of water bottles. This video highlighted the study of 22 blood samples that was further explained in the first video. 

 

(Video 3) Primary plastic pollution is from littering. Secondary microplastics come from pieces breaking off or decomposition of bigger plastics. The atmosphere, and atomic processes have been known to be affected by microplastics. We throw out 400 million plastic water bottles a year. 

Video one and two along with article one was similar in structure. These informational resources approached the topic of microplastic pollution and focused on the recent experimentation and discovery of microplastic in the human blood stream. All resources highlighted this fact, but the third video was unique. This video presented information about microplastics that affected more than just our human bloodstreams. Namely this video pointed out how microplastics can affect our atmosphere and atomic processes. I found this intriguing and interesting.  

 