---
cid: 29897
node: [PurpleAir Installation Guide](../notes/tylerknight/02-18-2022/purpleair-installation-guide)
nid: 30032
created_at: 2022-04-01 15:20:50 +0000
timestamp: 1648826450
uid: 379
author: [eustatic](../profile/eustatic)
---

Location

Most protocols require that the unit be installed 2x to 4x as far, from the highest, closest structure.  However, Purple Air's form factor seems to be designed to attach to a building--and, having lost and damaged several units that were established independently of buildings --mostly through lawnmowers--I must agree. 

Similarly, most protocols call for units to be 30m away from roads (unless you are measuring traffic pollution) . This is a bit absurd for a household unit, because most people live on roads, but don't own or rent that much land.  

Having compared a few units in St John Parish with different proximities to roads, road pollution is recognizable as regularly and generally elevated readings from 7-9am, as well as 4pm-6pm.  (i.e., not usually spikes, per se, but a significant general increase during particular times for heavier traffic).  I should work to document this in St John Parish. 

I will site the unit on a corner of the building that is facing the pollution source you are most interested in learning about, and try to avoid any part of the building closest to traffic.  This usually gives 270 degrees of airflow and limits traffic pollution in the readings, without situating the unit contrary to its design--which inevitably leads to loss of data and even destruction of the unit. 

[eustatic](../profile/eustatic) replying to: [PurpleAir Installation Guide](../notes/tylerknight/02-18-2022/purpleair-installation-guide)

