---
cid: 29912
node: [St. John STEM MAGNET - Microplastics and the Mississippi River](../notes/Kwame/12-15-2021/st-john-stem-magnet-microplastics-and-the-mississippi-river)
nid: 28497
created_at: 2022-04-04 13:22:46 +0000
timestamp: 1649078566
uid: 781899
author: [vscott2731](../profile/vscott2731)
---

Victoria Scott

April 4th, 2022

Our Oceans Are Haunted

Saying that oceans may be haunted may sound creepy and truth be told, IT IS. The term ghost fishing describes when lost or abandoned fishing gear floats away deep into oceans capturing fish and other marine life ultimately leading to their death. It has been estimated that 640,000 tons of fishing gear are lost and abandoned in oceans every single year equaling one tenth of waste within our oceans. Many may believe that the only way for fishing gear to be left in oceans is due to people leaving them there or disregarding them into Earth’s waters illegally, BUT these tools can also be swept away by storms or severe weather causing them to break into multiple fragments and get entangled in the ocean’s community. Think about this: If fish and marine life are part of our food resources, will fishing gear disrupt our food systems? The answer is YES. There is an increasing strain that all natural resources are facing including the fish we eat, crawfish, lobster, etc. So, what can be done?

1. Fishers can mark their gear for identification purposes.

2. You can be part of report and recovery groups.

3. Do not fish illegally.

4. Invest in modern technologies that use transponders and tracking systems so that fishing materials can be retrieved easier.

[vscott2731](../profile/vscott2731) replying to: [St. John STEM MAGNET - Microplastics and the Mississippi River](../notes/Kwame/12-15-2021/st-john-stem-magnet-microplastics-and-the-mississippi-river)

