---
cid: 29937
node: [St. John STEM MAGNET - Microplastics and the Mississippi River](../notes/Kwame/12-15-2021/st-john-stem-magnet-microplastics-and-the-mississippi-river)
nid: 28497
created_at: 2022-04-07 14:07:31 +0000
timestamp: 1649340451
uid: 788861
author: [adison1cooper](../profile/adison1cooper)
---

Adison Cooper
4/7/22

While creating our projects’ representative bottle, my group chose to focus on the impacts of microplastics on our drinking water. Inside of our bottle we placed common plastics like a water bottle wrapper, some zip tie, and foam packaging materials inside of some distilled water.  These are common contaminants that can reach our major water systems and sources. Because no chemical or filtration device has yet been proven to completely rid water of microplastics, we know that small pieces of these contaminants have been ingested by us through our drinking water. 

When creating our poster, we chose to focus on the importance of biodiversity on our planet. Extinction is a huge threat to biodiversity. Biodiversity is important because the variations of species contribute to the energy flow and survival of the Earth’s ecosystems. Humans rely on the natural occurrence of species like chicken, deer, and other terrestrial and aquatic species as food sources. In relevance to our microplastics investigation, we must understand that the contamination of our water means that the contamination of water for animals that we eat is the same if not much more. We must consider the fact that microplastic contamination of our water may impact biodiversity in a way that damages Earth's ecosystems that we as humans rely heavily on. 

[adison1cooper](../profile/adison1cooper) replying to: [St. John STEM MAGNET - Microplastics and the Mississippi River](../notes/Kwame/12-15-2021/st-john-stem-magnet-microplastics-and-the-mississippi-river)

