---
cid: 30045
node: [GSoC"proposal: Infragram.org  video upload  and full-screen UI ](../notes/mehulchapaneri8988/04-18-2022/gsoc-proposal-infragram-org-video-upload-and-full-screen-ui)
nid: 30475
created_at: 2022-04-19 00:35:50 +0000
timestamp: 1650328550
uid: 1
author: [warren](../profile/warren)
---

Hi [@mehulchapaneri8988](/profile/mehulchapaneri8988) - thank you for your proposal! I appreciate the carefully thought through mockups and notes here. It's great to see your thought process. 

For the new design, you had noted the extra white space on each side, but I wonder if your design could truly make the image we see edge-to-edge with no margin at all. Or really minimal margin. See how https://photopea.com/ creates a working space that is an edge-to-edge workspace, even vertically it's fixed height. Maybe it would be helpful to see a mockup with an image added, so we can see what it will look like and how much extra space there is on each side. Likewise while editing an image, we could skip the footer and just have a completely edge-to-edge interface that is not scrollable. What do you think? 

As to the code, do you have thoughts or anticipate challenges with some of the coding tasks, like refactoring the WebRTC library, or have you thought about exactly where (in what file) the changes for resolution or other projects will need to be made in the current codebase? I'd love to see how you're thinking about questions like, how should we determine what the available resolutions are from an incoming video feed? Getting a bit more detail on the coding process as you see it will bring up questions like these and let us know how you're thinking about the coding part of the project. 

Thank you so much!!!

[warren](../profile/warren) replying to: [GSoC"proposal: Infragram.org  video upload  and full-screen UI ](../notes/mehulchapaneri8988/04-18-2022/gsoc-proposal-infragram-org-video-upload-and-full-screen-ui)

