---
node: GSoC"proposal: Refine User Interfaces across PublicLab.org 
author: warren
created_at: 2022-04-19 00:00:43 +0000
timestamp: 1650326443
nid: 30433
cid: 30041
uid: 1
---



[warren](../profile/warren) replying to: [GSoC"proposal: Refine User Interfaces across PublicLab.org ](../notes/LakG/04-15-2022/gsoc-proposal-refine-user-interfaces-across-publiclab-org)

----
Hi [@LakG](/profile/LakG) yes please feel free to change the name, just be sure we can see it's related to the idea name (i.e. mention PublicLab.org). 

I'd like to echo Tilda's suggestion that you take on more of the tasks/subprojects listed on the ideas page, as we are hoping to find someone who can take the majority of them on. Should we select you we will be supporting you to find a successful approach and implementation. And if you have questions about how to approach them you can include them in the proposal and we can then see how you are starting to think about the projects!

> Improvised Content suggestion

Here, we found in previous attempts that we had a lot of trouble with two different approaches to search results - first using Solr, which was incredibly hard to set up and run and integrate, and second, using an API tied into complex ActiveRecord database queries (see https://github.com/publiclab/plots2/blob/main/app/services/search_service.rb). It also didn't do as well as we'd hoped in surfacing and sorting results. Currently our default search is provided by Google, which means we get their high quality PageRank-based results, which covers text, images, etc --- not just individual database records. I'm telling all this because we've found it very difficult to do better than Google at search (not surprising!). So, I'm curious if you've looked at some libraries or different approaches to search results that you feel could help improve on what Google provides, or even be displayed alongside? Rather than trying to compete with Google technically, you know?

> Cards showing more tags

This is an interesting suggestion! We've often wanted to show more on individual cards, and I was thinking -- what if we had something where when you hover over it, it expands? I'm not sure if that's annoying but it would help us balance visual complexity (we want to avoid too much information that can overwhelm people) with too little. Does that make sense?

Thank you!
