---
cid: 30042
node: [GSoC'22 proposal: Refine User Interfaces across PublicLab.org](../notes/karishmagvanwari/04-16-2022/gsoc-22-proposal-refine-user-interfaces-across-publiclab-org)
nid: 30436
created_at: 2022-04-19 00:12:52 +0000
timestamp: 1650327172
uid: 1
author: [warren](../profile/warren)
---

Hi [@karishmagvanwari](/profile/karishmagvanwari) thank you for such a detailed proposal! I'll provide some feedback on some of the ideas here:

> Calendar date picker

Here, i like the approach and the visuals look good. I'm curious - how might they appear on narrow screens on mobile devices? Could you think about that visual layout challenge?

> Randomized content

I like your idea here - but just to note, I think it's possible to do it without Ajax -- you could just create a partial template which could be included anywhere, or via a view helper, which we can use in different places around the site. It doesn't have to load asynchronously, to work! In fact it might be faster to fetch a collection and randomize them on the server side, rather than sending a larger batch to the client and randomizing there. 

> Category tree

I think here i like the simple UI quite a bit. Is there a Bootstrap style we could use, however? Not essential, just an idea. And, how would we expand a child node to get its child nodes in turn? Maybe we need a link AND an "expand" icon for each node? 

For the search box, could we show the different types after you type by including an option like "search for 'searchterm'" as a first option, and below, using a dropdown header and/or divider to show below that the list shown are for topics, not searches? (https://getbootstrap.com/docs/4.6/components/dropdowns/#headers) Also, instead of turning off the enter, could we just highlight the initial "search for 'searchterm'" option, so it's clear that pressing enter will do that, rather than the obscure need to press esc first? We can try a few versions of these out to see what works best, so we don't have to decide now. So maybe it's a good idea to build in time to try things out and think on them! That said, i like how you're using a diagram to understand the flow, i think it's a great approach to problem solving!

Regarding the store link, i think it's a promising idea -- and we could think of other pages that could get such a link -- but, how do you think we can track which pages get such a link and how we store the URL it should point to? 

Thank you for your proposal!




[warren](../profile/warren) replying to: [GSoC'22 proposal: Refine User Interfaces across PublicLab.org](../notes/karishmagvanwari/04-16-2022/gsoc-22-proposal-refine-user-interfaces-across-publiclab-org)

