---
cid: 30070
node: [Outreachy proposal: MapKnitter.org Spam Management system](../notes/perhisohwode/04-16-2022/outreachy-proposal-mapknitter-org-spam-management-system)
nid: 30442
created_at: 2022-04-19 20:23:44 +0000
timestamp: 1650399824
uid: 1
author: [warren](../profile/warren)
---

Hi [@perhisohwode](/profile/perhisohwode), thank you for your proposal! Just some thoughts and feedback:

> Except a user's role is easily changed

My concern is that when a user signs up they'll have the basic role, unmoderated. But that's because we don't yet know they may be a spammer. Once we discover that, we may spam them on PublicLab.org, and then we have a role mismatch - the MapKnitter record says they're OK, but PublicLab.org says they're not. So I do think we have to introduce some means of regular checks where MK gets updated based on the latest data from PL -- maybe once per day, or once per hour? How might we perform that sync efficiently?

I had almost forgotten that MapKnitter has comments! Perhaps we should move them out of the Edit interface (https://mapknitter.org/maps/portion-202/edit) and onto the view interface (https://mapknitter.org/maps/portion-202)? 

But I like what you're proposing for the PL spam link to a MK dashboard. Sounds great!

Wow, if we do comment moderation in addition to user and map moderation, it's quite a complex system. I wonder if we should begin with map moderation and consider comment moderation a "stretch goal" -- and also try to assess how bad the comment spam situation is!

I also appreciate your question about whether spamming a comment should ban the author. Whatever we decide, we should be sure it matches the policy at PublicLab.org so people aren't surprised. 

As to your question in 7, it's a really good one. Perhaps we should have some kind of MK check that's triggered periodically to try to sync and spam maps? Or, we could have a suggested next step after banning a PL user that says "they have maps, click here to spam them"?

Thank you!!!

[warren](../profile/warren) replying to: [Outreachy proposal: MapKnitter.org Spam Management system](../notes/perhisohwode/04-16-2022/outreachy-proposal-mapknitter-org-spam-management-system)

