---
cid: 30072
node: [Outreachy Proposal - Design a new full-screen user interface for Infragram.org](../notes/rohaidb/04-17-2022/outreachy-proposal-refine-the-public-lab-rich-editor)
nid: 30446
created_at: 2022-04-19 20:45:01 +0000
timestamp: 1650401101
uid: 1
author: [warren](../profile/warren)
---


Hi [@rohaidb](/profile/rohaidb), thank you for your proposal! Just a few notes and questions:

For the front page, your analysis is right on. I do want to note though that since all the images are stored actually on PublicLab.org, we are a little limited in how we can display them -- they're in an iframe of this URL: https://publiclab.org/embed/grid/notes:grid:infragram-upload

So perhaps we could set up a new route to fetch the images from PublicLab.org in JSON or CSV format, and display them using JavaScript... but it's a question whether it's worth it for the "image carousel" you have on your front page design. Maybe we could just show a featured image of our choice and then the same iframe below? I'm interested in your ideas on this, I'm not committed to any particular choice yet. 

Likewise, the pagination shown on the gallery page would be tough given we're working with an iframe. That's why we link to "View all" because the destination page has pagination. It's not perfect but it's also not terrible, you know?


I'm curious about what you think of the potential for a responsive layout for the image analysis page which has a toolbar with buttons like Presets, Run, Save, etc. It's got a lot of content and can be overwhelming to people. How might we design a full-screen, edge-to-edge layout (like https://photopea.com/) which could better organize these tools and also make better use of screen real estate? Do we really need the big white areas to left and right? 

I really like your idea to have a link to "open in instagram sandbox" and I wanted to suggest that we could imagine a feature like that as an extension to PublicLab.org, where the images are stored. We might, however, need to think of how we could store the original image as well, because you can't re-run Infragram on the output image, you need to work from the original. That might take some creative thinking!

Lots of good ideas here and some complications to puzzle through. Thanks for your proposal!

[warren](../profile/warren) replying to: [Outreachy Proposal - Design a new full-screen user interface for Infragram.org](../notes/rohaidb/04-17-2022/outreachy-proposal-refine-the-public-lab-rich-editor)

