---
cid: 30111
node: [Outreachy proposal: MapKnitter.org Spam Management system](../notes/perhisohwode/04-16-2022/outreachy-proposal-mapknitter-org-spam-management-system)
nid: 30442
created_at: 2022-04-21 16:12:04 +0000
timestamp: 1650557524
uid: 793563
author: [perhisohwode](../profile/perhisohwode)
---

Thank you [@warren](/profile/warren) for such a detailed feedback. I really appreciate it. Here are my responses:

>My concern is that when a user signs up they'll have the basic role, unmoderated. But that's because we don't yet know they may be a spammer. Once we discover that, we may spam them on PublicLab.org, and then we have a role mismatch - the MapKnitter record says they're OK, but PublicLab.org says they're not. So I do think we have to introduce some means of regular checks where MK gets updated based on the latest data from PL -- maybe once per day, or once per hour? How might we perform that sync efficiently?

I believe there's a slight misunderstanding but please correct me if I am wrong. There are basically 3 user roles (basic, admin, and moderator) and they don't change regardless of whether the user has been banned or not. What changes is the user status (normal, banned, or moderated). However, a user's role can change from 'moderator' to 'basic' once they are demoted by an admin. 

With this in mind, we can a perform a sync between MK and PL in 2 ways: During OpenID authentication and the scheduled background job already mentioned in my proposal.

Currently, the PL API to be queried doesn't return the user's role and status but my proposal has outlined how this will be achieved. Also, the current_user function on MK will be updated to be able to check for the user's status before any action is carried out.

>I had almost forgotten that MapKnitter has comments! Perhaps we should move them out of the Edit interface (https://mapknitter.org/maps/portion-202/edit) and onto the view interface (https://mapknitter.org/maps/portion-202)?

Yes, I believe having them on the view interface will be preferable (if commenting is not restricted to the map owner or an admin). Which raises a couple of uncertainties I have regarding editing a map and making a comment. I assumed (based on the fact that the 'Edit Map' button on the view interface could only be seen by an admin or the map owner) that editing a map or making a comment could also only be done by the map owner or admin? Based on this assumption, I expected that clicking on the edit link you shared (https://mapknitter.org/maps/portion-202/edit) would throw a restriction error and redirect me to the gallery page since I am neither the map owner nor an admin and neither is the map made by an anonymous user. But it didn't work like that, and I was able to play around with another verified user's map. Is this deliberate or an oversight we need to fix?

>Wow, if we do comment moderation in addition to user and map moderation, it's quite a complex system. I wonder if we should begin with map moderation and consider comment moderation a "stretch goal" -- and also try to assess how bad the comment spam situation is!

I do agree with you here. I will edit my proposal to reflect same: focus will be on map and user moderation. Comment moderation might be a future feature if we determine that comment spamming is actually an issue that needs to be fixed.

>I also appreciate your question about whether spamming a comment should ban the author. Whatever we decide, we should be sure it matches the policy at PublicLab.org so people aren't surprised.

Thank you. PL's policy currently bans an author whose comment has been spammed. So if we do include comment moderation on MK, we will follow the same route: ban authors whose comments have been spammed.

>As to your question in 7, it's a really good one. Perhaps we should have some kind of MK check that's triggered periodically to try to sync and spam maps? Or, we could have a suggested next step after banning a PL user that says "they have maps, click here to spam them"?

This will be taken care of by the background syncing-job I talked about earlier. A user banned on PL will be banned on MK and automatically all their maps will be spammed. I believe this will reduce the workload on the moderators and they don't have to leave the PL spam2 dashboard. Additionally, this automatic spamming helps checkmate situations where a moderator might ban a user and might forget to go ahead and spam all their maps.

Thank you!


[perhisohwode](../profile/perhisohwode) replying to: [Outreachy proposal: MapKnitter.org Spam Management system](../notes/perhisohwode/04-16-2022/outreachy-proposal-mapknitter-org-spam-management-system)

