---
node: Outreachy proposal 2022: Design a new full-screen user interface for Infragram.org
author: simransia07
created_at: 2022-05-02 21:06:15 +0000
timestamp: 1651525575
nid: 30479
cid: 30166
uid: 794606
---



[simransia07](../profile/simransia07) replying to: [Outreachy proposal 2022: Design a new full-screen user interface for Infragram.org](../notes/simransia07/04-18-2022/outreachy-proposal-2022-design-a-new-full-screen-user-interface-for-infragram-org)

----
Hello [@cess](/profile/cess), I would really appreciate it if you give any feedback on my welcome popup modal guide also. As I have worked really hard on that thing. 

I have also opened an issue [here](https://github.com/publiclab/infragram/issues/384) in which I have shared all my designs of Popup Modals a long time ago. And there I had also asked for the feedback from mentors [@mathildaudufo](/profile/mathildaudufo) and [@warren](/profile/warren) . But as the mentors were really busy, I did not get any feedback there . Then I created this proposal and due to tags issue it got published on this page very late. So despite of creating all the designs very earlier, I left behind from getting proper feedbacks from all the mentors.

I have also not got any feedback [here](https://github.com/publiclab/infragram/issues/319#issuecomment-1091052456) also 😢

I really don't know, if writing this comment now is right or wrong. Please pardon me for disturbing all of you again. 
I am just eagerly waiting for the feedbacks, especially on the popup modal part from a long long time, that is why I am writing this.

I totally understand you all have other commitments and are really busy with other stuff. But I will be really grateful  if you give some feedbacks  after viewing my designs of popups and explanations by playing this prototype: https://www.figma.com/proto/NKGSrf2EPgg6wRq1OajGFm/Infragram-UI?node-id=214%3A9&scaling=contain&page-id=0%3A1&starting-point-node-id=214%3A9

Thank you so much. 

