---
cid: 30435
node: [Environmental Science Stimuli That Can Adversely Impact Life In The Future](../notes/TheChessGym/08-19-2022/environmental-science-stimuli-that-can-adversely-impact-life-in-the-future)
nid: 34889
created_at: 2022-08-19 13:28:36 +0000
timestamp: 1660915716
uid: 809809
author: [kkeonne](../profile/kkeonne)
---

The current population of the entire world is 7,968,545,630. Population is the number of people or animals living in a country, city, or area. It relates to environmental science because as the population expands, the less resources they must provide for everyone. The number of the amounts of births this year is 88,386,110. It also relates by the more babies there are the less supplies they must provide for them. 37,106,720 is the number of deaths this year. 
Environmental science relates to this as well because unhealthy living and working condition maybe has something to do with the deaths. The amount of people with no access to a safe drinking water source is 779, 820,500. Not having clean water is sad and we all need it survive. 863,056,989 is the amount of undernourished people in the world. Everyone needs food to stay alive. 
Both water and food relate to environmental science in many ways because we need both to stay alive. Health is one of the most important things in life. The populations of disease deaths, flu deaths, HIV deaths, abortions and so much more in way to high. We should take our health more into consideration because we really killing ourselves. This plays a big role into environmental science because we need to have a safe and protected environment to live. Lastly, all these topics relates to environmental science because they all play roles, and all tied to each other. 


[kkeonne](../profile/kkeonne) replying to: [Environmental Science Stimuli That Can Adversely Impact Life In The Future](../notes/TheChessGym/08-19-2022/environmental-science-stimuli-that-can-adversely-impact-life-in-the-future)

