---
node: Environmental Science Stimuli That Can Adversely Impact Life In The Future
author: Suleman_O4
created_at: 2022-08-19 13:29:43 +0000
timestamp: 1660915783
nid: 34889
cid: 30437
uid: 809812
---



[Suleman_O4](../profile/Suleman_O4) replying to: [Environmental Science Stimuli That Can Adversely Impact Life In The Future](../notes/TheChessGym/08-19-2022/environmental-science-stimuli-that-can-adversely-impact-life-in-the-future)

----
Environmental science is the study of the affect biotic and abiotic factors have on it. So, humans being a major biotic factor on the environment are important to environmental science. Because of this human information is important because it has a direct correlation on the environment which is the main topic in *environment*al science emphasis on environment. Number of world population shows the stability of society and or the environment because the world population increases by the second shows that the environment is at a stable condition to support life which also ties into the amount births and deaths every year as well. The number of people without access to clean drinking water shows the pollution we as humanity have caused, polluted drinking water sources and diminished water sources are all results of the human effect on Earth. We as a human race have also affected the food supply with such a big population there are people without food because of the high demand and the strains that the world’s food supply goes through because of the high demand by the 7 to almost 8 billion people put on it every day. An access to healthcare improves your life expectancy hence securing your life to maybe further increase the human population later in life. In conclusion human information is important to environmental science because humans have a large effect on the environment around us whether it may be bad or good. 