---
node: Environmental Science Stimuli That Can Adversely Impact Life In The Future
author: FORSCHOOL
created_at: 2022-08-19 13:43:00 +0000
timestamp: 1660916580
nid: 34889
cid: 30446
uid: 810244
---



[FORSCHOOL](../profile/FORSCHOOL) replying to: [Environmental Science Stimuli That Can Adversely Impact Life In The Future](../notes/TheChessGym/08-19-2022/environmental-science-stimuli-that-can-adversely-impact-life-in-the-future)

----
     Environmental science is an interdisciplinary field that studies the effects of humans have on the environment. The current world population is 7,658,540,745 and estimated to hit 8 billion by 2023. The human population is growing at an alarmingly fast rate and the environment is becoming off balance. There have been 37,102,460 deaths this year and 88,376,357 births this year. The number of births is much greater than the number of deaths, keeping the world population in a constant state of growth. This is a problem that is causing our environment to become overstimulated and soon collapse. 

     Unrenewable resources such as oil, coal, and natural gas are in high demand today but becoming scarce because of non-preservation. These resources are also harming the environment because of overuse/ production. But theses aren’t the only resources depleting. 779,812,298 people currently have no access to safe drinking water and 7,055,179 have died from hunger this year. As the population grows there is more people being thrusted into poverty. There are 31.6 million people without healthcare. As the population grows (and consequently the economy fails) the cost of living goes up—inflation-- less and less people can afford healthcare/ insurance. 

     With the growing number of people in the world the environment is suffering. There aren’t enough resources to provided for the entire population but others in dangerous conditions. Therefore, environmental science is important. We should focus on replenishing our environment and implement policies to protect it. If we don’t act now our future generations will suffer the consequences.
-Gianna Williams
