---
cid: 30442
node: [Environmental Science Stimuli That Can Adversely Impact Life In The Future](../notes/TheChessGym/08-19-2022/environmental-science-stimuli-that-can-adversely-impact-life-in-the-future)
nid: 34889
created_at: 2022-08-19 13:32:07 +0000
timestamp: 1660915927
uid: 809818
author: [theChessGoatErik](../profile/theChessGoatErik)
---

     Because environmental science is an interdisciplinary study, it has many factors that affect it, such as population. Population is especially important because there is only a limited number of resources to go around. Too big a population can cause a decline in available resources. The number of births this year is over double the number of deaths. This obviously affects the population, causing it to grow exponentially. Soon enough, there will not be enough food or water to go around and nourish everybody. 

     Food and water, even though water can be recycled, and food can be regrown, there is a limited amount of water on Earth, and a limited amount of space to grow food. In the future, people will continue clearing forests and natural habitats to make more room for farmland. This reduces the biodiversity of our natural environments and causes hundreds of species to go extinct per year. 

    Population is one of the largest factors that affects our environment, and a major influence on population is healthcare. According to the Worldometer, the population doubled in only 40 years. (1959-1999) This is due to the increases and advancement in medical technology and its reliability. Giving birth and fighting disease is a lot less dangerous today than it was centuries ago, which contributed to the recent boom in population. Healthcare is becoming more accessible and widespread, so people are living longer, which is good, however more people living longer equates to more resource consumption. All these factors link to the population of planet Earth, which has a direct impact on our natural environment. 

[theChessGoatErik](../profile/theChessGoatErik) replying to: [Environmental Science Stimuli That Can Adversely Impact Life In The Future](../notes/TheChessGym/08-19-2022/environmental-science-stimuli-that-can-adversely-impact-life-in-the-future)

