---
cid: 30447
node: [Environmental Science Stimuli That Can Adversely Impact Life In The Future](../notes/TheChessGym/08-19-2022/environmental-science-stimuli-that-can-adversely-impact-life-in-the-future)
nid: 34889
created_at: 2022-08-19 13:43:29 +0000
timestamp: 1660916609
uid: 809813
author: [cyrelrodrigazo](../profile/cyrelrodrigazo)
---

Environmental Science play is a crucial role in the survivability of the human society and the environment. There are a lot of factors that affect the environment that includes biotic and abiotic. Some of these factors includes population, birth rates, death rates, access to safe drinkable water, food supply or availability and so forth. Human population is directly contingent to the food supply, access to water and healthcare. Currently there are approximately 7.9 billion humans and back in 1922 there are 1.86 to 2 billion. The population increased four times the size in 100 years and with overpopulation it can over run the supply of our daily essentials. The populations growth rate is 1.05% during 2020 and continuously increasing. A rapid continuous increase of population can lead to the increase of needed space, energy consumption, food, water, and healthcare. Increase energy consumption drains the earth of our non-renewable resources even with renewable resources like hydroelectric energy, and solar energy is not enough to meet the demands of the rising population. This is a serious concern over the public safety and well-being of future generations because if necessities are not met for most of the people it can lead to other various problems in the economy and increase in poverty rate. These effects can cause chaos and major up heeling which can cause the government to lose control and potentially anarchy. Huge energy consumption due to increase in population increase the releases of greenhouse gas since renewable energy sources are not enough to meet the current demands. This year CO2 emissions is 22,984,274,092 tons. This can cause the greenhouse effect which is global warming affecting the ecosystem disrupting natural balance of the food chain/food web which can have adverse effect on human agriculture and wildlife.  Global warming can lead to rising sea levels, less protection from the sun and huge refineries that generate our energy needs pollutes our soil, air and water which correlates back to food production.  


[cyrelrodrigazo](../profile/cyrelrodrigazo) replying to: [Environmental Science Stimuli That Can Adversely Impact Life In The Future](../notes/TheChessGym/08-19-2022/environmental-science-stimuli-that-can-adversely-impact-life-in-the-future)

