---
cid: 30443
node: [Environmental Science Stimuli That Can Adversely Impact Life In The Future](../notes/TheChessGym/08-19-2022/environmental-science-stimuli-that-can-adversely-impact-life-in-the-future)
nid: 34889
created_at: 2022-08-19 13:34:24 +0000
timestamp: 1660916064
uid: 809803
author: [vanezzahodges](../profile/vanezzahodges)
---

     Births, deaths, water, food, healthcare, population. It all affects the environment. The population is the contributing factor, because more people equal a greater demand for food and water. More people mean more money spent on healthcare, more babies being born, and more people likely to die. The environment can only offer so many resources for a certain amount of time because we will never lose nor gain more food or water. However, with the growing population, people will demand increasingly. 

     There are more births than deaths. In a second, about four people are born per death. This grows concerning that there are more people being born. How many people can be born before we exceed Earth’s capacity? Other living things such as animals, fish, and insects also live on the same planet as us, so they also need resources as much as we do. If we do not act fast, many species will go instinct, affecting our food resources. The pollution we bring will wreak havoc on our air quality. Air quality will affect global warming and our water. Since there are so many people, we should help each other ensure a safer, healthier future for us, our future generations, and the environment.

[vanezzahodges](../profile/vanezzahodges) replying to: [Environmental Science Stimuli That Can Adversely Impact Life In The Future](../notes/TheChessGym/08-19-2022/environmental-science-stimuli-that-can-adversely-impact-life-in-the-future)

