---
node: Environmental Science Stimuli That Can Adversely Impact Life In The Future
author: eriandafaith
created_at: 2022-08-19 13:57:58 +0000
timestamp: 1660917478
nid: 34889
cid: 30450
uid: 809810
---



[eriandafaith](../profile/eriandafaith) replying to: [Environmental Science Stimuli That Can Adversely Impact Life In The Future](../notes/TheChessGym/08-19-2022/environmental-science-stimuli-that-can-adversely-impact-life-in-the-future)

----
Population-all the inhabitants of a particular town, area, or country.
        The population ties into environmental because the environment takes up of two major forms.  Consumption of resources such as land, food, water, air, fossil fuels and minerals.  Between 1960 and 1999, Earth's population doubled from three billion to six billion people. In many ways, this reflected good news for humanity: child mortality rates plummeted, life expectancy increased, and people were on average healthier and better nourished than at any time in history.
	Births- the emergence of a baby or other young from the body of its mother; the start of life as a physically separate being. 
     Birth ties into environmental science because as we know naturally kids or born every day or shall I say every second.
About birth: Some links between our environment and our health are well known; air-quality alerts, for instance, are a regular part of the daily news. But few of us are aware that some of our major health risks were predicted by environmental factors our mothers experienced while we were still in the womb.

Death- the action or fact of dying or being killed, the end of the life of a person or organism.  
    Exposure to indoor air pollution from household burning and solid fuels affects nearly half of the world's population. The primitive fires typically fill homes with dense smoke, blackening walls and ceilings and sickening those within.


	Health-the state of being free from illness or injury.
     The health in the population right now is okay, its not good but it’s not bad. Human health and well-being are intimately linked to the state of the environment. Good quality natural environments provide basic needs, in terms of clean air and water, fertile land for food production, and energy and material inputs for production.

Food- any nutritious substance that people or animals eat or drink or that plants absorb in order to maintain life and growth.
    When it comes down to food, people today demand cheap food. The environment today impacts our food. 
