---
node: Environmental Science Stimuli That Can Adversely Impact Life In The Future
author: Akasha
created_at: 2022-08-19 14:02:40 +0000
timestamp: 1660917760
nid: 34889
cid: 30451
uid: 809817
---



[Akasha](../profile/Akasha) replying to: [Environmental Science Stimuli That Can Adversely Impact Life In The Future](../notes/TheChessGym/08-19-2022/environmental-science-stimuli-that-can-adversely-impact-life-in-the-future)

----
Population 
	The current world population is 7,968,545,019. The population has doubled in 40 years between and 1999. It went from 3 million to 6 million. We are projected to reach 8 billion by 2023. This is important because the more people in the world means the more resources that is used to take care of the growing population. The study of environmental science is very important when it comes to the population because it helps us figure out what the growth of the population does to the environment. 
Births and Deaths
	In the world there is currently 131,600 births that just happened today and only 55,271 deaths. So that means for every all most 3 births there is 1 death. This ratio of 3:1 is just how that population is getting bigger. The environment can’t keep up with the growth of the population because a lot of the resources that we have a very limited due to pollution or just a simple shortage of it. But environmental science helps us see that so that we can try to fix it before it gets any worst or at least until the future generation takes over.
Water and Food
In the world right now, there is currently 863,057,278 undernourished people in the world, and we also have 10,888 people that have died due to hunger just today. Also, in the world there is 779,820,125 people that don’t have drinkable water and 531,309 people that died because of water related diseases. This has everything to do with environmental science because environment science studies the water quality and food quality. Environment science would help us see what harmful things that in the water are in the soil or feed that grows or that is fed to the food we eat every day. 
Healthcare 
In the world right now, there is about 3.5 billion people in this world that doesn’t have any healthcare. This is crazy because of that fact that basic healthcare is every expensive especially when you live in a 4th world country. The fact that healthcare is expensive it makes people that are very sick not get a checkup. This means that whatever that person has will now spread because they are not getting treated for in. With the use of environmental science, we can see how the disease would spread and start effect the environment we live in. 
