---
node: Biomes Are Important to The Study Of Environmental Science
author: dayalexis
created_at: 2022-08-23 13:47:35 +0000
timestamp: 1661262455
nid: 34896
cid: 30479
uid: 809801
---



[dayalexis](../profile/dayalexis) replying to: [Biomes Are Important to The Study Of Environmental Science](../notes/TheChessGym/08-23-2022/biomes-are-important-to-the-study-of-environmental-science)

----
Biomes are large ecological areas with similar conditions, such as vegetation, living organisms, soil, and climate. In other words, biomes are communities of plants and animals living in a particular climate. Biotic factors can be classified as producers, consumers, and decomposers. All these biotic components are interdependent. All three are necessary for a biome to thrive. Producers are the most basic components of an ecosystem. Producers, such as plants or algae, are those organisms that can capture the solar energy and convert it into chemical energy. Organisms that depend on plants and other organisms for their food are consumers. Consumers lack the ability to capture solar energy and hence depend on producers for their food. Organisms such as insects, fungi (including molds), and bacteria feed on the dead bodies of other organisms. They convert the organic material from dead producers and consumers into simpler organic compounds, nutrients and gases. A predator feeds on its prey. Common examples of predator and prey are fox and rabbit, bear and fish, wolf and moose, great white shark and elephant seal, and cat and mouse. Parasites are organisms that feed on a host organism and causes harm to that organism. Each of these things are apart of biomes and is need to keep the environment improving and to keep the environment balanced.