---
cid: 30524
node: [What Are Endangered and Threatened Species? ](../notes/TheChessGym/08-26-2022/what-are-endangered-and-threatened-species)
nid: 34902
created_at: 2022-08-26 13:35:23 +0000
timestamp: 1661520923
uid: 809817
author: [Akasha](../profile/Akasha)
---

Native species are are threated and endangered due to the impact of invasive species, due to climate change, and other changes in the environment. Like in Florida the alligator and crocodile and the python territory is starting to cross because that python population is just growing and growing. Since the population is growing the more food they have to eat to say alive so the bobcat and the raccoon population is depleting significantly. That is threatening all of the native species in Florida because now it is getting hard to survive in their natural habit.

Navies species are also becoming threatened due to climate change. The glaciers in Antarctica are melting because the world is warming up. That is all of our fault because we are adding to the world warming up and for every good thing we do we are doing 10 bad things that effect the world. The polar bears are losing resources and they are losing space to leave so they are slowly dying off.

Another thing that is killing native species off before they get the chance to reproduce is deforestation and wild fires. They animals are either dying because they don't have places to hide so their being preyed upon by their predators or the animals move into civilizations to find a home is being killed because us humans are scared of them when we took their homes for our comfortability. Wild fires also give them no places to live and it also kills many different species at the same time. Thank you to public lab for being able to express our ideas and to see how others thing of the environment.

[Akasha](../profile/Akasha) replying to: [What Are Endangered and Threatened Species? ](../notes/TheChessGym/08-26-2022/what-are-endangered-and-threatened-species)

