---
cid: 30522
node: [What Are Endangered and Threatened Species? ](../notes/TheChessGym/08-26-2022/what-are-endangered-and-threatened-species)
nid: 34902
created_at: 2022-08-26 13:33:14 +0000
timestamp: 1661520794
uid: 809815
author: [Kaitty](../profile/Kaitty)
---

There is only a carnet number of animals that is in our world as of now. Each of these animals are naivete to their own evierment and adopted to there own way of life. There is a balances in life that we have to maintain or everything could be wiped out completely, including humans. There was breeders that brought in a vermin's python to a place they should have not. It was for the money as they was poplar as pets. but once they was to many to feed and to big to keep they let them out into the wild.

Now today we have a problem with the python as it is wiping out all kinds of animas. The python's impact has been dramatic on the population of smaller mammals, including raccoons, opossums, marsh and cottontail rabbits, foxes and bobcats, population which have dropped drastically. There are hunters that are trying to take them out but they are hard to find as they are the masters of hiding. There are large estimates of python populations range from at least 30,000 to more than 300,000. If nothing is done about them they well keep growing and spread around the world climbing up the food chain eventually getting to humans.

**PS. thank you for puilbic lab for giveing us a website that we could share the info that we know and help others learn**

[Kaitty](../profile/Kaitty) replying to: [What Are Endangered and Threatened Species? ](../notes/TheChessGym/08-26-2022/what-are-endangered-and-threatened-species)

