---
node: What Are Endangered and Threatened Species? 
author: babytrin
created_at: 2022-08-26 13:32:53 +0000
timestamp: 1661520773
nid: 34902
cid: 30521
uid: 810249
---



[babytrin](../profile/babytrin) replying to: [What Are Endangered and Threatened Species? ](../notes/TheChessGym/08-26-2022/what-are-endangered-and-threatened-species)

----
The Burmese python is one of the largest species of snakes, which they are also known as an invasive species in Florida. The pythons compete with the native wildlife for food they live for to eat off. However, the Burmese pythons aren’t just competing for their food, they are also competing & fighting for a place to live. By them doing this they are running off other animals & feeding on these animals. It won’t be too long till....we are next. I’m saying this b/c due to the fact they are eating off our pets & other animals, what happens to if there are none. What will they eat?  

They have already moved down to places where they shouldn’t, for instance how they are all over Florida. They are supposed to be in India one of their homelands. Already there are more than two different species that are now going out to extinction & endangerment. These species are opossums, raccoons, bobcats, rabbits, & more. So, what will we do when it's too late to stop this creature from killing our animals & they move on to us? B/c like I said it won’t be to long till we’re next, so we need to come up with something & I mean something quick before it’s too late. 


P.S.
I would like to give a shoutout to public lab, for giving us this chance to spread our knowledge to others & help others learn things that they didn't know.