---
cid: 30523
node: [What Are Endangered and Threatened Species? ](../notes/TheChessGym/08-26-2022/what-are-endangered-and-threatened-species)
nid: 34902
created_at: 2022-08-26 13:34:21 +0000
timestamp: 1661520861
uid: 809806
author: [avinnetta24](../profile/avinnetta24)
---

Endangered species are plants and animals in the environment that are in danger of becoming extinct. Extinction is when a species dies out and the species no longer exists. Extinction can happen naturally, or it can be caused by human actions. Natural extinction can happen instantly or take millions of years to occur. While extinction caused by humans usually happens due to destruction of habitats for urbanization and/or the use of resources or killing for sport. But today many animals and plant species are in danger of being extinct due to human activity. This is what puts them on the endangered species list.  There are the polar bears which are an endangered species. There endangered because of ongoing and potential loss of their sea ice habitat resulting from climate change- which is caused by humans.

Threatened species are animals that are likely to become endangered within the near future. Threatened species like the Giant panda have population numbers close to being endangered. And there are calculations that show in the future their numbers will dwindle even more making them become endangered if the same events occurring today are still taking place in the future. But there are measures that are being taken to protect and stop the endangerment or vulnerability of plant and animal species. 

[avinnetta24](../profile/avinnetta24) replying to: [What Are Endangered and Threatened Species? ](../notes/TheChessGym/08-26-2022/what-are-endangered-and-threatened-species)

