---
cid: 30526
node: [What Are Endangered and Threatened Species? ](../notes/TheChessGym/08-26-2022/what-are-endangered-and-threatened-species)
nid: 34902
created_at: 2022-08-26 13:37:05 +0000
timestamp: 1661521025
uid: 810245
author: [OF04](../profile/OF04)
---

Endangered species are those plants and creatures that have gotten to be so uncommon they are in threat of getting to be terminated. Threatened species are plants and creatures that are likely to gotten to be endangered inside the predictable future all through all or a noteworthy parcel of its extend. Things that can cause that are pesticides and other chemicals that can poison plants and animals if they are not used correctly.
For example, "the passenger pigeon became extinct. All living passenger pigeons disappeared from the earth entirely. The passenger pigeon became extinct for two reasons. First, the forests where it lived were cut down to make way for farms and cities. Second, many pigeons were shot for sport and because they were good to eat. At that time, there were no hunting laws to protect endangered species like there are now." This goes to proves that a lot of main causes for threats and endangered species are pesticide like even if a host doesn't physically take up an organisms body. With that being said, I would like to thank organizations such as public labs for allowing us to express our thoughts and better access and understand information about our environment.

[OF04](../profile/OF04) replying to: [What Are Endangered and Threatened Species? ](../notes/TheChessGym/08-26-2022/what-are-endangered-and-threatened-species)

