---
cid: 30520
node: [What Are Endangered and Threatened Species? ](../notes/TheChessGym/08-26-2022/what-are-endangered-and-threatened-species)
nid: 34902
created_at: 2022-08-26 13:32:29 +0000
timestamp: 1661520749
uid: 809801
author: [dayalexis](../profile/dayalexis)
---

          There are over 1,300 endangered or threatened species in the United States today. Endangered species are those plants and animals that have become so rare they are in danger of becoming extinct. Threatened species are plants and animals that are likely to become endangered within the foreseeable future throughout all or a significant portion of its range. People can cause the extinction of plants and animals. The main reason that many species are endangered or threatened today is because people have changed the homes or habitats upon which these species depend. Some of these species do so well in their new habitat that they endanger those species already living there, called the native species. These introduced species are called invasive species. The Burmese python is an invasive species and has done tremendous damage to native wildlife in Florida especially to mammals and birds. Originally from Southeast Asia, these snakes can grow to 18 ft in length and weigh up to 200 pounds. It kills its prey by constriction with its large body and then swallows it whole. An estimate in 2013, puts its number in south Florida in the range of 30,000 to 150,000. These snakes arrived in the United States because of their value as pets. These snakes were also released in bulk into Floridian swamps from a breeding facility during the ravaging of hurricane Andrew in 1992. 

      Further evidence of predation by the python is the stomach contents of dead snakes which have shown to include deer, rabbits, raccoons, opossums, and bobcats. More troubling is the fact that endangered or threatened species such as Key Largo woodrat and wood stork are also being killed by the Burmese python. Endangered species are the Key Largo wood rat and wood stork. The Nashville crayfish is endangered mainly because the creek where it lives has been polluted by people. 

Thanks to public lab we was able to discover and make data about the bad things that is going on the environment we living and the biomes around us that we use for everyday life. 

[dayalexis](../profile/dayalexis) replying to: [What Are Endangered and Threatened Species? ](../notes/TheChessGym/08-26-2022/what-are-endangered-and-threatened-species)

