---
node: Biodiversity Is Important 
author: dayalexis
created_at: 2022-08-29 13:33:21 +0000
timestamp: 1661780001
nid: 34919
cid: 30542
uid: 809801
---



[dayalexis](../profile/dayalexis) replying to: [Biodiversity Is Important ](../notes/TheChessGym/08-29-2022/biodiversity-is-important)

----
Different types of plants and animals millions of different species all living together in an environment in something we call an ecosystem. For an ecosystem to be successful for it to be healthy it must have different kinds of plants now lots of different kinds of plants and animals something we call biodiversity. Environments always have living parts and non-living parts some animals live on top of plants some animals live in the water some plants grow on rocks it's all part of the ecosystem. The more biodiversity the more secure life is. An ecosystem is a biological community of interacting organisms and their physical environment including abiotic and biotic factors that contribute to the environment. Biotic factors can be classified as producers, consumers, and decomposers. All these biotic components are interdependent. Producers are the most basic components of an ecosystem. Producers, such as plants or algae, are those organisms that can capture the solar energy and convert it into chemical energy. Organisms that depend on plants and other organisms for their food are consumers. Consumers lack the ability to capture solar energy and hence depend on producers for their food. Terrestrial consumers are tigers, rabbit, and so on. Organisms such as insects, fungi (including molds), and bacteria feed on the dead bodies of other organisms. They convert the organic material from dead producers and consumers into simpler organic compounds, nutrients and gases. There are three main types of biodiversity. Species Diversity when you examine an ecosystem for species diversity, you are looking for two specific things species richness and evenness of species abundance. Genetic diversity is the variation of those characteristics within each population of the same species. Ecosystem diversity concerns the variability of ecosystems within a given location. Recently due to human activities the biodiversity is starting to make huge decreases in animal populations. For example, bluefin tuna is usually served in top-notch sushi restaurants because it is, quite simply, the most delicious tuna available in the world though 95% of the blue fin tuna population has been gone from the ocean since its the most desired tuna for human consumption.