---
node: EPA Charts and Classifies Environmental Quality By Geographic Location
author: vanezzahodges
created_at: 2022-08-30 13:36:11 +0000
timestamp: 1661866571
nid: 34920
cid: 30557
uid: 809803
---



[vanezzahodges](../profile/vanezzahodges) replying to: [EPA Charts and Classifies Environmental Quality By Geographic Location](../notes/TheChessGym/08-30-2022/epa-charts-and-classifies-environmental-quality-by-geographic-location)

----
     Today, we had to research the four spheres of an area in Louisiana, and determine whether its safe, moderate, or unhealthy. 25.8% of the air quality is good, 71% of the air quality is moderate, and 3.2% is unhealthy, so most of the quality in Laplace is moderate. On the UV index forecast, Laplace is close to extreme UV, the highest level of UV radiation. Radon is radioactive gas, can be commonly found in homes across the U.S. and can lead to 20,000 lung cancer deaths per year. Laplace is in zone 3, so we are at a low risk of being exposed to radon. In conclusion, the atmosphere in Laplace is unhealthy. 39 million tons of food waste was produced in 2015 Louisiana continues to face this issue. Only 5.3 percent of this was composted from incinerators and landfills. According to EPA, they estimate that landfills and incinerators gain more food than everyday trash. 

     In most areas in Louisiana, the streamflow of water is greater or equal to the 90th percentile. There are also some areas that are between the 75th and 89th percentile. In some areas, the water is considered above normal, while in others it is considered normal. There are a few areas near Lake Charles where the water is considered below normal. The water quality in Laplace is not ranked, but it is considered healthy. Stationary facilities are major point sources of air pollution. Toxic air pollutants put 511 million people are at risk of developing illnesses from constant exposure of toxic air.. These chemicals are suspected of causing cancer and birth defects. The five most poisonous chemicals that but people at risk being released are Ethylene Oxide, Chloroprene, Formaldehyde, Naphthalene, and Carbon Tetrachloride.

https://epa.maps.arcgis.com/apps/Embed/index.html?webmap=eca90efe0550403ba761f002626adec3&extent=-119.4778,28.0865,-67.6662,49.0487&zoom=true&previewImage=false&scale=true&legend=true&disable_scroll=false&theme=light 

https://geopub.epa.gov/myem/envmap/myenv.html?minx=-90.72393&miny=29.85202&maxx=-90.27793&maxy=30.29802&ve=11,30.07502,-90.50093&pText=70068%2C%20La%20Place%2C%20Louisiana&pTheme=home 

https://geopub.epa.gov/myem/envmap/myenv.html?minx=-90.72393&miny=29.85202&maxx=-90.27793&maxy=30.29802&ve=11,30.07502,-90.50093&pText=70068%2C%20La%20Place%2C%20Louisiana&pTheme=home

