---
cid: 30554
node: [EPA Charts and Classifies Environmental Quality By Geographic Location](../notes/TheChessGym/08-30-2022/epa-charts-and-classifies-environmental-quality-by-geographic-location)
nid: 34920
created_at: 2022-08-30 13:33:27 +0000
timestamp: 1661866407
uid: 809815
author: [Kaitty](../profile/Kaitty)
---

The earth is composed of different things water, air, land and life itself, each with its own names water is hydrosphere, air is atmosphere, land is geosphere and life are biosphere. The hydrosphere can be both danger and heathy. Everyone on earth need water to live as it is part of our body, and a way to live heathy lives, by helping your body.  But if that water has been contaminants by people putting Trash, bacteria from pet waste and aging septic tanks, and many other pollutants then that water can be unhealthy, which can cause health problems illnesses and even cancer.

 We can help clean the water by boiling the water, purifying it, solar purification and many more ways. Unclean water is responsible for 1.2 million deaths per year. There are 779,540,319 people without clean draining water and there need to be something done about it. According to the EPA information, most businesses in Laplace produce hazardous waste, including car dealerships, doctors offices, gas stations, and grocery stores. The effects on the environment that these places cause include impairing local waterways and soil quality. According to EPA, the mortality rate and birth weight of infants in St. John Parish’s biosphere is decreasing. It is called neonatal mortality. The low birthweight causes them to experience physical and developmental health problems and to die in the first year of life.” According to the EPA website, the atmosphere in St. John Parish is in moderate condition. As of August in 2015, 71% of the parish’s air is moderate.


[Kaitty](../profile/Kaitty) replying to: [EPA Charts and Classifies Environmental Quality By Geographic Location](../notes/TheChessGym/08-30-2022/epa-charts-and-classifies-environmental-quality-by-geographic-location)

