---
cid: 30561
node: [EPA Charts and Classifies Environmental Quality By Geographic Location](../notes/TheChessGym/08-30-2022/epa-charts-and-classifies-environmental-quality-by-geographic-location)
nid: 34920
created_at: 2022-08-30 13:39:00 +0000
timestamp: 1661866740
uid: 809802
author: [twesley006](../profile/twesley006)
---

     According to the EPA website, the atmosphere in St. John Parish is in moderate condition. As of August in 2015, 71% of the parish’s air is moderate. Only about 23% of the air quality is good. A small percentage of the air is unhealthy. The emission of greenhouse gases is polluting the air quality. Many refineries populate along the river road. They contribute to air pollution the most. The risk of contracting cancer is relatively high.
     The geosphere may be moderate. St. John is a very agricultural parish. Soil quality is important for the quality of the agriculture and the ground that we live on. Our hydrosphere is unhealthy. The Mississippi River’s water is almost undrinkable without proper treatment. The river is filled with bacteria, waste, and other pollutants.
     The EPA website is outdated and doesn’t provide information about our land or water, but it is being impacted by human actions. Most businesses in Laplace produce hazardous waste. The local Walmart impairs 3 waterbodies. There are 35 hazardous waste producers within a 1-mile radius. Food litter is also an issue as trash and waste is not being handled properly.
     Our biosphere is unhealthy as well. Our area is called “Cancer Alley”. The EPA states that the mortality and birth weight of infants in St. John Parish are decreasing. Infants have a chance of experiencing health problems within their first year of life. Prematurity is also a problem related to hypertension, tobacco smoke exposure, or inadequate weight gain during pregnancy. Air pollutants are also known to cause birth defects. The quality of life in this parish is not desirable.

[twesley006](../profile/twesley006) replying to: [EPA Charts and Classifies Environmental Quality By Geographic Location](../notes/TheChessGym/08-30-2022/epa-charts-and-classifies-environmental-quality-by-geographic-location)

