---
node: EPA Charts and Classifies Environmental Quality By Geographic Location
author: ParkerByrd
created_at: 2022-08-30 13:39:11 +0000
timestamp: 1661866751
nid: 34920
cid: 30562
uid: 809822
---



[ParkerByrd](../profile/ParkerByrd) replying to: [EPA Charts and Classifies Environmental Quality By Geographic Location](../notes/TheChessGym/08-30-2022/epa-charts-and-classifies-environmental-quality-by-geographic-location)

----
I conclude that the air quality in Reserve/Edgar is Moderate. St. John Parish is one of area's that is considered to be a part of the cancer ally. Based data illustrated in the EPA public website it states that 71% of the air quality is moderate and a good quarter of the air is labelled as good. Only a small percentage of the air labelled as severe/unhealthy. The small amount of lethal air is not lethal enough but it is contingent to the environment as it is released into the atmosphere, there for I conclude that refineries' plays a crucial role on the air quality being on edge.

The biosphere is the sphere that deals with living organisms on Earth. The way this sphere is affected by this pollution because living things have to breath in the as the article says “Toxic air pollutants, or air toxics, are those pollutants known or suspected of causing cancer or other serious health problems, such as birth defects. Not all air pollutants are considered”. This could cause many problems that even include death to these living organisms that make up the biosphere. The geosphere consists of the study of things such as brownfields, being the expansion, redevelopment, or cleansing of greenspaces and working lands. 
According to the article “Food Waste” if we reduce wasted food in modern society 5.3% divert from landfills and incinerators for composting. Reducing wasted food is good for the economy, community, and environment. Hazardous waste and liquids from the Hydrosphere may also pollute the land and soil that crops grow on and hinder livestock. The land in the area of Louisiana is roughly moderate, but slowly approaching the threshold of dangerous if nothing is done to reduce waste and pollutants in soil.  The water quality and pressure are moderate. The pressure is 75th percentile and more so its good. Most of Louisiana is blue. On the graph, there are blue dots. This indicates that it is 75th percentile or higher and this means that it is good. The data proves it all.