---
cid: 30567
node: [EPA Charts and Classifies Environmental Quality By Geographic Location](../notes/TheChessGym/08-30-2022/epa-charts-and-classifies-environmental-quality-by-geographic-location)
nid: 34920
created_at: 2022-08-30 13:46:28 +0000
timestamp: 1661867188
uid: 809810
author: [eriandafaith](../profile/eriandafaith)
---

When relating to the environment there are 4 categories that make it up: the atmosphere, the hydrosphere, the biosphere, and the geosphere. Each sphere has different quality levels that show how clean or polluted a sphere is. The quality of the air when relating to the atmosphere is good or safe. This can be seen by the Air Quality Index Basics or AQI. Next is the quality of health in the biosphere. From the chart shows the percentage of different categories of risk. 92.2% of the chart accounts for points which are stationary facilities or processes that produce air pollution.  This shows that the chance of getting cancer is 329 in a million. So, the quality of health when relating to the biosphere is moderate. Following the biosphere is the hydrosphere with a dangerous water quality. According to EWQ’s Tap Water database conducted by the water utility and provided to the Environmental Working Group by the Louisiana Department of Health and Hospitals, as well as information from the U.S. EPA Enforcement and Compliance History database shows that water utility was in compliance with federal health-based drinking water standards. But the water contained 19 total containments which is 10 more than containments that the health guidelines.  

[eriandafaith](../profile/eriandafaith) replying to: [EPA Charts and Classifies Environmental Quality By Geographic Location](../notes/TheChessGym/08-30-2022/epa-charts-and-classifies-environmental-quality-by-geographic-location)

