---
cid: 30618
node: [Coastal Marsh Restoration Causes Environmental Succession (Allogenic) In Louisiana Wetlands](../notes/TheChessGym/09-15-2022/coastal-marsh-restoration-causes-environmental-succession-allogenic-in-louisiana-wetlands)
nid: 34965
created_at: 2022-09-15 13:53:31 +0000
timestamp: 1663250011
uid: 809803
author: [vanezzahodges](../profile/vanezzahodges)
---

For nearly a century, wetlands have been slowly vanishing along Louisiana’s coasts. Wetlands such as marshes and swamps have been one of Louisiana’s most unique features, differentiating it from every other state in the United States. These wetlands (along with barrier islands) have protected our coast against strong winds storm surges that could come from hurricanes or any tropical storm. Since the 1930s, Louisiana has unfortunately lost nearly 2,000 square miles of coastland. Reasons for this is the levees and the spillway that contain the Mississippi River. Naturally, the river would flow out into the Gulf of Mexico and carry sediment. This sediment would settle along the coast and build new land along the marshes. Without marshes being naturally built, some communities have been supporting trying to restore it themselves. Other ways Louisiana is being affected are the populations of some species such as the Louisiana Black Bear. There is currently an estimate of 700-1,000 black bears in Louisiana according to the LDWF and now, Louisiana black bear are listed under the Endangered Species Act. If we managed to restore the Mississippi River to its former glory, there would be downsides to it too. Yes, it would be better for the wetlands and it would give us more protection, but it will also impact the fishing industry. The Mississippi River and Gulf of Mexico are two different bodies of water, one being fresh water, the other being salt water. After the spillway was built, fish and other animals in the ecosystem adjusted to years of not much fresh water pouring into the gulf. When the spill way opens however, it impacts the saltwater fish that the fishing industry relies on. Some of these fish are the gulf killifish, sheepshead minnow, oyster killifish, diamond killifish, brown shrimp, and white shrimp. If the river is restored, constant freshwater would flow into the gulf, and it may take years for these fish populations to adjust. 

[vanezzahodges](../profile/vanezzahodges) replying to: [Coastal Marsh Restoration Causes Environmental Succession (Allogenic) In Louisiana Wetlands](../notes/TheChessGym/09-15-2022/coastal-marsh-restoration-causes-environmental-succession-allogenic-in-louisiana-wetlands)

