---
node: Creating a "videocamera" for passive dust collection over time?
author: warren
created_at: 2023-01-20 17:40:24 +0000
timestamp: 1674236424
nid: 38041
cid: 30836
uid: 1
---



[warren](../profile/warren) replying to: [Creating a "videocamera" for passive dust collection over time?](../notes/natematias/01-14-2023/creating-a-videocamera-for-passive-dust-collection-over-time)

----
This looks v cool! Walkman style. I wonder how recoverable/measurable dust is from the tape when rolled up again. 

Would some kind of clock mechanism be a better bet for winding? But I'm also tempted by the cassette enclosure itself - easy to store in a dust-free environment, enclosed. I wonder if you actually loaded a very thin string of sticky tape onto a cassette, is there a way to make it not jam... you can buy thin tape, too. Then it's locked away and protected and you can unload easily. 

You could point a little fan into where the tape is free. Maybe you could route it diagonally across the little window between the spools, to avoid gumming up the different pins it'd normally touch on the way around, and then cut out the window, so you can direct air across it? 

Would riding the bike faster gather more dust, and affect your readings? or are you interested in the type of dust and the quantity doesn't matter as much? 

I want to say I think dust collection usually means visual classification/quantification of the dust, which is pretty labor intensive. But if it's on a spool, maybe you could spool it back across a microscope and record an image sequence automatically, and somehow do particle detection on those images? A lot of unknowns, but there have been some efforts to automate image detection in images: [#particle-imaging](/tag/particle-imaging) 

What if you drove it from an odometer somehow... so the particles would be collected at a rate proportional to your travel distance? OK, now I'm overthinking things!