---
node: Grating angle
author: cfastie
created_at: 2013-02-06 01:29:27 +0000
timestamp: 1360114167
nid: 5892
cid: 3344
uid: 554
---



[cfastie](../profile/cfastie) replying to: [Grating angle](../notes/cfastie/2-5-2013/grating-angle)

----
Jeff,
Really good questions. I don’t think I can answer any of them from first principles.

Focusing the image of the spectrum is one of the inscrutable aspects of diffraction gratings. When I took the clip of the spectrum for the video above, the grating was two inches away from the lens, and the slit was 10 inches away from the grating.  The Canon S95 said it was focused at 20 inches. Go figure. When I did the bench measurements, my naked eye was two inches from the grating and I could see the terbium lines crisply, regardless of slit-to-grating distance. Without reading glasses, my old eyes can’t even read a book unless it’s at arm’s length (It was majorly rejuvenating to be able to focus on something so “close”). When I tried to see the spectrum while wearing reading glasses, I couldn't see anything but blur.  Go figure.  I was impressed by how good the automatic focus was on an iPhone and fold-up spectrometer with the grating right against the lens.  

Maybe someone can explain why the spectral image is so easy to focus. It probably depends on the camera, but it seems that the grating can be right against the lens. With the 1000 lines/mm grating film, the camera has to be close to see the full spread of the spectrum. If you back off the spectrum gets cropped. And the closer you get the bigger the spectrum is in the image so the resolution is higher.

The aperture should affect focus by modifying the depth of field, so it should be easier to focus at larger f-stops.  But assuming the spectrum is focused, aperture will also be important in determining resolution. Lenses are typically sharper at middle f-stops like 5.6 or 8. Resolution can be poor when the aperture is all the way open (smallest f-stop). I don’t have a decent webcam to test. If you send me your standard models I can try them out (then I will have them to test for aerial IRCAMery too).

You are right that the bench tests I have done don’t apply well to the Public Lab desktop or mobile spectrometers because my minimum slit-to-grating distance was too long.  And the tests I have done may not apply at all to a DVD grating. And the entrance slit I used was much narrower than the standard Public Lab slit.  So the bench tests should be repeated with a DVD, a wider slit, and with the slit-grating distance extended down to 8 cm. Then you can know the optimal grating angle (g) for any slit-to-grating distance (D). My results hinted that with a wide slit the grating angle was less critical, which may be the saving grace of the Public Lab system.  The tests can also tell you whether the camera should be at a non-normal angle to the grating (n), but that is probably not very important. If a camera is pointed 10 degrees off from the optimal angle, light will enter the lens from parts of the scene 10 or 20 degrees to either side of the lens axis. So making the camera axis perpendicular to the grating may be OK.
