---
node: Grating angle
author: Tom_H
created_at: 2013-02-11 16:31:04 +0000
timestamp: 1360600264
nid: 5892
cid: 3387
uid: 43352
---



[Tom_H](../profile/Tom_H) replying to: [Grating angle](../notes/cfastie/2-5-2013/grating-angle)

----
The basic grating equation works for transmission as well as reflection.  The sign conventions can throw you though.

One purpose of the collimating lens is to ensure that the wavefront reaches the grating at the same angle all along the grating -- i.e. the angle of incidence is the same for all light striking the grating.  You are correct about the collimation then meaning that the optical instrument looking at the diffration pattern should be focused at infinity.  I am not sure at what distance the slit no longer needs a collimating lens for the system we are involved with here.

One thing your eye can do is change focal length, and most of these cheap webcams probably cannot adjust focus. The webcams may have a pretty large depth of focus though.  I have been using cheapo webcams for this work so I can dedicate one to be cemented into the spectrometer.  I also have a Logitech 9000 which has adjustable focus (can operate in either auto-focus or manual focus mode) and also has 1600 pixels in the horizontal direction as well as a zoom lens.  I am going to do some evaluation work with that webcam.  One thing I want to evaluate with the Logitech webcam is the spectral quality of a purpose made diffraction grating and the dvd.  Since the low cost diffraction gratings have fewer lines/mm the telephoto capability of the Logitech webcam will be useful.