---
node: Grating angle: DVD+R
author: cfastie
created_at: 2013-02-19 03:29:27 +0000
timestamp: 1361244567
nid: 5964
cid: 3468
uid: 554
---



[cfastie](../profile/cfastie) replying to: [Grating angle: DVD+R](../notes/cfastie/2-12-2013/grating-angle-dvdr)

----
Stu,
Thanks for the lesson!  It’s really good to get a feeling for these concepts.  I wish you had been my high school teacher. TomH sent me a spreadsheet with the grating equation that’s fun to play with. So I am getting an education from all sides. Maybe he should share that spreadsheet in a research note.

I tried your demonstrations with a laser and also looked at the diffraction pattern with the grating perpendicular to the light path from the slit. Although observing the angles of the right side and left side first-order spectra is informative, it seems relevant that I was not able to see a sharp image of the diffraction pattern by looking into the grating when it was perpendicular to the light path.  Only when the grating was rotated to an angle between 40° and 65° was I able to see a sharp spectrum, although a blurry spectrum was always visible.

I have been puzzling about the absence in the grating equations of a variable for the distance between slit and grating. You must be correct that the distance should not matter, and the absence of that variable in all the standard equations confirms this. But the phenomenon I recorded appears to be real. At certain grating angles, it is not possible to see a sharp image of the spectrum when the grating is too close to the slit. But the same grating angle produces a sharp image when the distance to the slit is increased. I am not using a camera to observe this, just my eye. This must be an artifact of some feature of the setup. I suspect the artifact might apply to all of these setups with no collimating optics. Maybe someone else can try to repeat my results.

That’s a good observation that holding a grating up to a CFL bulb produces multiple overlapping images of the bulb in different colors (corresponding to the colors of the main peaks).  This seems to argue against the requirement that the light be coherent to produce a diffraction pattern. But I’m not sure what that really means.

Chris
