---
cid: 3472
node: [Grating angle: DVD+R](../notes/cfastie/2-12-2013/grating-angle-dvdr)
nid: 5964
created_at: 2013-02-19 05:18:29 +0000
timestamp: 1361251109
uid: 43352
author: [Tom_H](../profile/Tom_H)
---

I think the reason that Chris has trouble getting good resolution at certain angles has to do with the eye's focusing mechanism, and the focus may be getting out of range, or other things in the field of view may be influencing the eye focus.

Now I think I understand some other observations that have been reported in the PLOTS spectroscopy forums.  People have focused their webcams at distance x, and set the slit at x only to find that the best spectral image is obtained with the webcam focused at distance y.  Here is what I believe is the explanation: 
1)Remember that we are working without collimating lenses and relatively short slit to camera distance, therefore the light has a significant amount of divergence when it reaches the grating and then the lens.
2) That amount of divergence is changed by the grating according to the grating equation, and inspection of the equation would lead one to believe that the relationship is non-linear.
3) With the grating angle at o° (i.e. plane of grating normal to the direction to the slit), if the incidence angle changes by 1°, the diffraction angle will change by 1.47° for the dvd 1350 lines/mm spacing at 550 nm light (about the middle of the visible spectrum).
4)  Therefore light from the slit after diffraction is diverging more than before diffraction, and more divergence is like having a closer object to camera distance.
5) I verified this in a semi-quantitative way by using a webcam with adjustable focus.  In one experiment I had the dvd piece set up normal to the light (incidence angle = 0) and the webcam had to be at about 45° in order to capture the spectrum.  The grating was 29.5 cm from the slit and the webcam 0.5 cm behind that.  I used a slider in the webcam controller to obtain best focus.  After I had done my spectral measurements I did some focusing experiments and found that, for the webcam to focus on an object at the same slider position, the distance was now 15 cm.  So, after the light from the slit has been diffracted it is diverging as if the slit were only 15 cm instead of the actual 30 cm.

Now, when the angle of incidence is about 22°, the change in diffracted angle is about the same as the change in incidence angle, and beyond 22° the change in diffraction angle is less than the change in incidence angle.  So beyond 22° the webcam should be focused at a point beyond the slit distance.  This explains an observation I made earlier; I did not need to focus the webcam for close distance using the setup described on the PLOTS website for the spectrometer housed in the VHS box.

Incidentally, the focusing webcam I referred to above is a Logitech 9000, and it has a 1600x1200 pixel array.

[Tom_H](../profile/Tom_H) replying to: [Grating angle: DVD+R](../notes/cfastie/2-12-2013/grating-angle-dvdr)

