---
node: Grating angle: DVD+R
author: straylight
created_at: 2013-02-20 11:17:37 +0000
timestamp: 1361359057
nid: 5964
cid: 3486
uid: 43047
---



[straylight](../profile/straylight) replying to: [Grating angle: DVD+R](../notes/cfastie/2-12-2013/grating-angle-dvdr)

----
Chris, you said:

"At certain grating angles, it is not possible to see a sharp image of the spectrum when the grating is too close to the slit. But the same grating angle produces a sharp image when the distance to the slit is increased."

maybe, just maybe, you've gone inside the distance where the slit acts as a coherent source ? I'd be very happy to hear this, for it puts me on more stable ground ! I want coherency before I want to see interference patterns !

Tom, excellent discussion, thanks. I'm realising the geometry of the slit to grating is really important. In the double slit experiment, the diagram in every text book shows the single slit which illuminates the double slits, makes a perfect wave, where complete diffraction has taken place and beautiful semi--circular wavefronts are produced. The double slits are illuminated with waves that have travelled the same distance and which are also in phase, having originated from the same idealised point. (They don't actually have to travel the same distance and so arrive in the exact same phase, but whatever phase relationship they have as they hit the double slits must be constant.) 

Our situation is different. The slit isn't small enough to produce the nice clean 180 degree dispersed semi-circular pattern favoured by text books and we have a bright (as you point out) slightly divergent beam. So when this falls on a linear grating, the divergence is creating a path difference (or creating a variable incident angle change, as you suggest) and this affects the pattern.

The key to the fineness of the lines, that we teach to our students, is that it is only at a specific angle (path difference) that multiple adjacent slits all reinforce constructively. At any other angle in between, while adjacent slits might partially interfere constructively, there is a slit so many places away (say 1000)  that is half a wavelength out, which exactly cancels the first slit. The second slit is cancelled by the 1001 slit, the third by the 1002 slit and so on. Illuminating more slits makes the line that is reinforced so much finer, at a very precise angle, due to this cancellation effect. Hence the difference between a double slit (varying intensity between peaks) and a grating (discrete peaks with almost no intensity between). Well, that is what we teach !

If we had a perfect (narrow, approaching the wavelength of the light) slit, the light would diffract the full 180 degrees and there would be no diverging beam, just a perfect pond like ripple. The part of that perfect wavefront that hits the grating would have negligible path length difference (except for that caused by the deliberately introduced incident angle). On the other hand, I think, a wide slit throwing out a beam would have a path length difference from one side of the beam to the other (and there would be less grating slits illuminated as well).

Chris said:
"it seems relevant that I was not able to see a sharp image of the diffraction pattern by looking into the grating when it was perpendicular to the light path. Only when the grating was rotated to an angle between 40° and 65° was I able to see a sharp spectrum, although a blurry spectrum was always visible."

If the grating is not producing sharply defined lines then not enough grating is being illuminated, the phases of the waves as they are hitting the grating are not consistent (see above) or there is nothing bringing the rays back into focus, so they occupy the same beam width as the original beam that is illuminating the grating (focusing problem, see below). In each case the colours are not produced as a line, but as a smear and the whole spectrum isn't well defined. Maybe when the grating is angled, the angle is correcting the phase differences of the incident light due to the nature of the beam we are using ? As Tom says, the incident path difference being "cancelled" by the diffracted path difference introduces some fine tolerances. I notice with my laser and the DVD, when angled, one side is sharp, the other side is smeared. 

But I've got to confess, this is just conjecture. I'm really out on a limb trying to reconcile perfect text book physics with optical reality. Likewise thinking about the focusing problem:

Tom said:
"Now, when the angle of incidence is about 22°, the change in diffracted angle is about the same as the change in incidence angle, and beyond 22° the change in diffraction angle is less than the change in incidence angle. So beyond 22° the webcam should be focused at a point beyond the slit distance. This explains an observation I made earlier; I did not need to focus the webcam for close distance using the setup described on the PLOTS website for the spectrometer housed in the VHS box."

my understanding of focusing, somewhat simple I know, is that the image is in focus if all the light emitted from a point on the source is brought back to a single point on the image. If the source is a point or slit, then the camera should be focused on that point or slit. In our case, the light rays, as they leave the grating are, for a particular reinforced wavelength, parallel. So the camera or eyeball is essentially focusing parallel light rays, which look like they have originated from a point an infinite distance away. 

In other words, the light source (slit) is a set 10cm away, but the green light rays from the grating, at a given angle for constructive interference, are actually parallel. (This is fudged in the school text books by saying the slit separation is small, the screen is far away and the rays come together). Better texts actually place a converging lens after the grating, as we are doing with the camera lens. So what we are perhaps seeing is the need to focus light rays that have been parallel by the grating in the focus distance of the camera. Which is very convenient for us actually, given the minimum focus depth of cheapy webcams !

dunno, this stuff is starting to keep me awake at night !

stu




 

