---
node: Grating angle: DVD+R
author: Tom_H
created_at: 2013-02-20 16:49:12 +0000
timestamp: 1361378952
nid: 5964
cid: 3497
uid: 43352
---



[Tom_H](../profile/Tom_H) replying to: [Grating angle: DVD+R](../notes/cfastie/2-12-2013/grating-angle-dvdr)

----
Hi straylight,
You make some good points, and I think you need to think more about a couple of things.

1)  Even with a slit small enough to produce coherent light there will still be an angular difference from one point on the grating to another.  Remember the ripple on the pond analogy?  When those ripples intersect a plane surface different parts of the ripple will hit the plane surface at different times.  So in the spectrometer there will be different path lengths and differing arrival times as well as different angles.  With pencil and ruler draw a line from a point to a line representing the grating say 10 cm. away, now draw a line from the point to the same grating line but intercepting the line say 1 cm away from where the first line intercepts the the line representing the grating.  The two angles of incidence are different.  This is most readily apparent when one line from the point is perpendicular to the grating line.

2)  Lets talk about the camera and focusing.  Think of a point being imaged by a lens and the point is close.  Light striking the lens from the point will have some divergence angle (think of the angle made by rays striking opposite sides of the lens or center of the lens versus the perimeter).  Light coming from a point a more distant point will have a different divergence angle and therefore be imaged at a different distance from the lens.  Remember the thin lens equation 1/f=1/i+1/o.  The divergence angle is the ultimate reason for this.  Again a pencil and paper help.  You can do some simple ray tracing to show this.  To do ray tracing you can let a line represent the thin lens.  A ray striking the lens along the optical axis (in this case perpendicular to the line that represents the lens) will be deflected so that it crosses the focal point of the lens, and a line passing through the center of the lens will be undeviated.  So with a line and some points on paper you can do some ray tracing.

I wish there were a simple way to upload images to this site, then I could easily send some drawings to illustrate my points.