---
node: Late-night IRCAM hack
author: cversek
created_at: 2013-03-07 07:56:26 +0000
timestamp: 1362642986
nid: 6211
cid: 3663
uid: 48275
---



[cversek](../profile/cversek) replying to: [Late-night IRCAM hack](../notes/donblair/3-5-2013/late-night-ircam-hack)

----
[@cfastie](/profile/cfastie) on March 6, 2013 - 23:46. 
> It boggles the mind that the necessary libraries might fit on an SD card and run on a Pi

Heck, I got 6 gigs left on my 8 GB SD after installing Debian 6 on my RPi.  Software - at least in the Linux world - is small these days compared to storage media and data files.  

> What is the trick to synchronizing the shutters?

Having a stationary target ;)  In all honesty, we haven't thought too much about this; although, we did run two ```fswebcam``` processes asynchronously so they wouldn't  block each other and that made up for most of the lag.    

> Can you override or pregame the camera's autoexposure routine so it does not contribute to unequal shutter lag?

Possibly, we are looking at some Python library (SimpleCV/opencv) that will give us more control than fswebcam. Unfortunately, I have been struggling with some issues in the underlying linux drivers (v4l2) that prevent me from getting two  webcams running simultaneously at high res - the nasty "Cannot allocate memory" bug that plagues many users.  But, there is hope... Don's computer seems to be immune to this issue and he is running a new version of the software... so I guess its about time for me to do a distribution upgrade. I'll report back whether or not this issue still exists in Ubuntu 12.10 with v4l2 v0.8.8, since I heard Jeff was having a similar problem.

> Would it be possible to connect the two cameras with a Y cable so one signal from a USB port went to both cameras?

I don't think so, because these UVC devices rely on a two-way link, unlike - perhaps -- CHDK cameras.