---
cid: 3676
node: [Late-night IRCAM hack](../notes/donblair/3-5-2013/late-night-ircam-hack)
nid: 6211
created_at: 2013-03-07 22:25:18 +0000
timestamp: 1362695118
uid: 554
author: [cfastie](../profile/cfastie)
---

You're right that for aerial work a 0.5 second lag is not terminal. The whole rig will move some, but the photos from the two cameras will still overlap a lot. They can be registered for making NRG or NDVI, but the overlap will sometimes be only 60-80%, so the cropped composite will generally be much smaller than a full frame. So more photo pairs will be needed to get complete coverage of the scene, more photo pairs will have to be registered, normalized, and combined into multispectral composites, and there will be more composite images to stitch together into multispectral maps, which will have more stitching seams and artifacts. But  it will still work. 

In fact, it provides some interesting information. If the lag is constant, photo pairs that do not overlap a lot will have been taken while the rig was moving a lot. Those photos will have more motion blur and probably be less vertical than photos from pairs that overlap a lot.  So a solution is to take a lot of pairs and throw out the pairs that overlap less than x.  The result will be better quality than your average pair of perfectly synchronous kite photos.

Stitching all the VIS into one map and all the NIR into another and then rectifying the maps is a non starter. The rectification will be lousy. And the stitching process is manual, so you only want to do it once. Or three times if you want VIS, NRG, and NDVI. Or once if somebody figures out how to use the information in the first manually stitched map to create the other two. You would have to record all of the manual placement and affine transforms for each image. No problemo, Baby. 

[cfastie](../profile/cfastie) replying to: [Late-night IRCAM hack](../notes/donblair/3-5-2013/late-night-ircam-hack)

