---
cid: 4163
node: [Spectrometer calibration](../notes/wiebew/12-30-2012/spectrometer-calibration)
nid: 5381
created_at: 2013-03-24 09:25:13 +0000
timestamp: 1364117113
uid: 54330
author: [sonofaquark](../profile/sonofaquark)
---

Hi,

When speaking of "calibrating wavelength", what Wiebew is referring to is the mapping of the colors of the rainbow onto the horizontal axis of the webcam. The RGB filters that permit color imaging with the 3 sets of CCD detectors do not really play a part at all in this calibration.

This "spectral" calibration is typically done in the lab using the sharply defined first order peaks of mercury and argon. The lamps are simple but quite expensive. The project uses common CFL lamps which contain both gases, but also possibly some others along with phosphors that might mask some peaks or make definition of others error prone. I don't know if this is an issue at present. The CFL lamp is certainly a good solution for most users.

In much more expensive spectrometers, a line sensor is used. A reflective diffraction grating and mirror transform incoming light into a beam that looks like the Pink Floyd "Dark Side of the Moon" album cover. The mirror is then adjusted to position the beam onto the array.

In this innovative new spectrometer, the advantage of mass production gives PublicLab the camera and computer interface for a few bucks. The camera has many more pixels in the vertical axis than we need, but we don't mind. Using a transmissive grating (piece of a DVD) eliminates the mirror and allows placement of the grating right in front of the camera.


If you understood all that before and were asking if it might also be possible to measure the intensity of discrete wavelengths with any accuracy using the color filters, the answer is absolutely not.

BTW "gaussian" light refers to theoretical wave packets. A gaussian beam refers to the energy distribution, or shape, of the beam. A white light resembles a black body curve in spectral energy distribution. 

I'm saying "we", but I only just came on board and have contributed nothing but a few ideas so far. I hope this helps broaden your understanding.


[sonofaquark](../profile/sonofaquark) replying to: [Spectrometer calibration](../notes/wiebew/12-30-2012/spectrometer-calibration)

