---
cid: 4721
node: [In Search of Spectrometer Attenuators](../notes/stoft/05-14-2013/in-search-of-spectrometer-attenuators)
nid: 7526
created_at: 2013-05-15 08:20:53 +0000
timestamp: 1368606053
uid: 54025
author: [stoft](../profile/stoft)
---

Jeff, Thanks. I've just posted an addendum at the end of this research note to add some plots specifically looking for linearity. I believe the image sensor is, in fact, linear (assuming the chip exposure is stable at whatever level -- max gain I believe). I also believe that the anomalies I see are artifacts of a combination of other issues -- namely the system "un-flattness" for lack of a better term -- plus the overall "un-flattness" of the system response to be understood.

Besides the very low cost, the print-transparency attenuators have the advantage of fixed attenuation values. So, if we assume linearity, then fixed attenuation provides more value for measurement ... in addition to just preventing signal overload. (There is another, simple method for gross-level attenuation of a source like an incandescent lamp -- just place a cardboard baffle with a slit (like 1/8-1/4-in wide) in front of the lamp. This also cuts down on stray light and reflections.)

On using fixed attenuators. For example: You were attempting to observe fluorescence in the presence of a vary large signal where the wavelengths were well separated. If you use a fixed attenuation to keep the source signal from saturation (then record it's peak) and then remove that known attenuation and record the peak of the target signal, you have (theoretically) a measure of the difference -- whose value is greater than the dynamic range of the image sensor itself. The non-uniformity of the sensor vs wavelength might still be an issue -- I just don't yet understand why the system exhibits so much variance. A fixed attenuator can be roughly "calibrated" for any single wavelength of interest by providing a strong, non-saturating signal at that frequency (from any source) and then inserting a fixed attenuation (but while keeping the signal above the noise). The measured difference, at that target wavelength, is now the calibration for that attenuator for that wavelength.

ND filters are just a pair of polarizing filters -- one mounted the revers of the other so that 180-deg rotation goes from a min to max attenuation that is continuously variable. Good for photography but w/o fixed "known" settings of attenuation. Unless there is an additional way to calibrate them, they become less useful for amplitude measurements. I think there are fixed-value filters, but that would really multiply the cost.

Dave



[stoft](../profile/stoft) replying to: [In Search of Spectrometer Attenuators](../notes/stoft/05-14-2013/in-search-of-spectrometer-attenuators)

