---
cid: 4956
node: [Canon A2200 NIR conversion](../notes/nedhorning/9-25-2012/canon-a2200-nir-conversion)
nid: 4002
created_at: 2013-06-06 02:21:59 +0000
timestamp: 1370485319
uid: 105881
author: [tomh4236](../profile/tomh4236)
---

I did this conversion.  Everything went as above, except that the glue holding the sensor in place is most definitely NOT hot glue.  It wouldn't melt even with a soldering iron set to 650 deg F.  It does break apart very easily under pressure with a very small screwdriver.  This produces many little particles, but the can be collected by using transparent tape and the screwdriver to get the tape into the narrow spots.  The glue is not just on the screws for the sensor board, but also around the corner of the board itself.  You must clear the glue from a path around the edge of the board.  A little bit of pressure under the board will pop the corner loose.  Do not try to lift the sensor board all in one shot; that will probably break the pins as mentioned above.  Once the sensor board is loose, it can be lifted up.

As for questions on exposed or unexposed film, it depends on whether the film is color print or color slide film.  Exposed slide film turns clear, so use unexposed.  Exposed print film turns dark (to make those areas light during printing), so use exposed.

Or do what I did and buy an inexpensive 87 filter.  LEE Filters makes an infrared filter from polyester film that works just fine and is much cheaper than Kodak Wratten 87.  It comes in 3" or 4" squares, but you only need about 1/2 x 3/4 inches, so you might ask around to see if anyone has extra.
See:
http://www.bhphotovideo.com/c/search?Ntt=lee+infrared+87&N=0&InitialSearch=yes&sts=ma&Top+Nav-Search=

(I just checked B&H Photo, and they are out of stock, so look around, or check in every so often to see if they are in.)

No light gets through this filter, so images are purple in color.  I have my camera set to B&W, which is easier on the eyes.

[tomh4236](../profile/tomh4236) replying to: [Canon A2200 NIR conversion](../notes/nedhorning/9-25-2012/canon-a2200-nir-conversion)

