---
node: Water Quality Measurements with Optical Spectroscopy
author: straylight
created_at: 2013-07-12 04:15:18 +0000
timestamp: 1373602518
nid: 8809
cid: 6300
uid: 43047
---



[straylight](../profile/straylight) replying to: [Water Quality Measurements with Optical Spectroscopy](../notes/philippg/07-10-2013/water-quality-measurements-with-optical-spectroscopy)

----
wow, what a great sounding project Philipp. I like your thinking. Taking an average over 10 or more rows of the camera image is really good. 

The issue of calibration is the area we are trying to resolve, with many suggestions on the plots-spectrometry forum. I'm guessing here that the normal technique we would use, of getting a baseline measurement from an uncontaminated source, such as distiilled water in a cuvette, would need to be extended. 

How much water depth (or column depth) is typically analysed when looking for the chlorophyll-A using absorbance ? Is it in the order of centimetres or metres ?

Would a calibrated filter work to narrow down the problem of the source calibration ? 

Are you looking at a specific wavelength for the absorbance or a range ?  I'm guessing you are looking at absorbance at some other colour than green.

Forgive the questions, but water quality monitoring around these parts is rather important, the school I teach in runs a small aquaculture set up and getting a handle on the build up of algae would be excellent. I would also be interested in seeing if it could be tied in to pre-emptive chlorination of swimming pools, picking the (exponential ?) rise in algae as an indicator it is time to chlorinate, rather than rely on the measured value of the chlorine which is wasteful.

great research note, thanks heaps !

stu 