---
node: Filtered tap H2O vs unfiltered tap H2O spectral graph comparison
author: Ernie
created_at: 2013-08-13 14:17:23 +0000
timestamp: 1376403443
nid: 8965
cid: 6623
uid: 182471
---



[Ernie](../profile/Ernie) replying to: [Filtered tap H2O vs unfiltered tap H2O spectral graph comparison](../notes/Suiris/08-06-2013/filtered-tap-h2o-vs-unfiltered-tap-h20-graph-comparison)

----
I afraid that using a laser will not tell you much about the chemical composition of any contamints in your water.  The laser spectrum is much too narrow.  You might be able to measure turbidity (suspended particulates, etc.) with the laser.  You will need to change the optical geometry.  Place the optical detector (camera) so that its axis is perpendicular to the laser beam passing through your sample.  This way, the detector will only receive light that is scattered by the sample, rather than light that is transmitted as in the spectrometer set up.  You will still need a reference sample to compensate for the istrument function i.e. the part of the measurement that is not due to your sample of interest.  In this case, a sample of known clean water would be the reference.  This time you will want to subtract the readings from the reference measurement from the readings from the sample measurement.  As a test sample, try a little whole milk diluted with water.  The tiny globules of fat in the milk will act as suspended particles to scatter the laser light.  i would try one part milk to nine parts water as a starting point.  DO NOT LOOK DIRECTLY INTO THE LASER BEAM.  You will probably have to adjust the dilution factor to get the measurement readings in the operating range of your instrument.