---
node: Moar NIR tracking
author: cfastie
created_at: 2013-09-12 18:26:13 +0000
timestamp: 1379010373
nid: 9316
cid: 6821
uid: 554
---



[cfastie](../profile/cfastie) replying to: [Moar NIR tracking](../notes/cfastie/09-12-2013/moar-nir-tracking)

----
Ned, 
The G11 photos in the panel above were recorded in camera raw. According to my naïve model of what camera raw does, it should be possible to take any one of those three photos and turn it into either of the other two (they differ only in white balance).  This can’t be done with the infragram sandbox because that does not accept raw files.  With the proper program that reads raw files and allows manipulation of all of the data, it should be possible.  Adobe Lightroom reads the raw files, and I think it makes all the raw data available, but it does not have a complete set of manipulation tools (no channel mixer).  [RawTherapee](http://www.rawtherapee.com/) is a free open source raw editor with very complete tools. I can indeed take any one of those three G11 photos and make it look a lot like any of the others using RawTherapee. But those photos are an easy case because they sort of have only one hue and are made from monochrome light. I have not been able to make a nice orangey Infragram photo out of a purpley Infragram of a real outdoor scene. I suspect it is possible but maybe tricky. It is probably not possible when all you have to start with is a jpg image. It might be that white balancing after the fact will not work well if you don’t have raw files.
