---
cid: 7016
node: [Possible problem with DIY Infragram camera or infrapix](../notes/ceefoster/09-19-2013/possible-problem-with-diy-infragram-camera-or-infrapix)
nid: 9347
created_at: 2013-09-25 15:03:42 +0000
timestamp: 1380121422
uid: 554
author: [cfastie](../profile/cfastie)
---

Your results are really good now. I agree that they would probably improve if the images straight from the camera were a little more orangey. To achieve that, repeat the custom white balance procedure with a different blue surface or under different light. The sky is a different color every day, and sometimes every hour, so repeating a "blue sky without direct sun" white balance with the same blue surface can give different results every time you do it. Experiments with other procedures are welcome. Try just pointing the camera at a blue sky during white balance. Results of this will vary for people in the desert and people in a rain forest. Maybe try putting some Rosco filter over a light bulb and illuminating some blue paper with blue light. Or point the camera at Rosco filter in front of a lamp. Or use a blue LED. Then you don't need good weather. You can see immediately whether it worked by looking at plants through the camera. Let us know if you find a procedure that works for you.

Even the best white balance for a particular camera and particular filter will not produce perfect NDVI results. The goal is three-fold: 1) NDVI values for healthy plants in the range 0.1 to 0.9, ideally near the middle of that range, 2) NDVI results for foliage with a range of values, so differences in plant health can be discerned, and 3) NDVI values below 0.1 for non-foliage surfaces.  There will always be non-foliage surfaces that mimic the NIR/VIS ratio of foliage, so there will always be artifacts in NDVI images. This is especially true with very bright or very dark areas of the scene. 




[cfastie](../profile/cfastie) replying to: [Possible problem with DIY Infragram camera or infrapix](../notes/ceefoster/09-19-2013/possible-problem-with-diy-infragram-camera-or-infrapix)

