---
node: No output signal on IR kit timer
author: cfastie
created_at: 2012-05-08 21:08:08 +0000
timestamp: 1336511288
nid: 1891
cid: 716
uid: 554
---



[cfastie](../profile/cfastie) replying to: [No output signal on IR kit timer](../notes/cfastie/5-2-2012/no-output-signal-ir-kit-timer)

----
Randy's response got lost (my bad?) so here is his latest comment:

Thanks Chris for the schematic.  I've done a little poking around and here's what I've learned:

There are two different commonly used variants of the 555:
LM555:  Requires supply voltage between 4.5V to 15V.  Can source up to 100mA from OUT (pin 3)
TLC555: Requires supply voltage between 2V to 15V.  Can source up to 10mA from OUT (pin 3)
According to http://chdk.wikia.com/wiki/USB_Remote_Cable, you don't need much current at all to trigger the camera -- the IXUS 80 for example uses less than 1mA.  So either variant of the 555 should have no trouble.

Here's an experiment you might consider trying:

1) Disconnect the relay coil by cutting a trace between pin 3 and the relay coil.  (Or you can remove the relay altogether).
2) Power the board with 5 to 6V, instead of 12V.  After the half-volt drop from D3, this will provide 4.5V to 5.5V to your 555, and then your 555 will provide the same 4.5V to 5.5V to your camera via the USB cable trigger.  If you have the TLC555, you can probably get away with a lower-voltage battery, maybe down to 4.5V, yielding 4V to your TLC555 and your camera, since the TLC555 works down to 2V, and I imagine the camera will still trigger fine down to 4V.  If you want to reduce battery voltages by half a volt on both sides (e.g. 4.5V-5.5V or 4V-5.5V), you could short across D3, but you'd have to promise to never plug in your battery backwards.  (Diode D3's role is to keep your board from letting out the magic smoke if you hook your battery backwards by accident).
3) Now connect the USB cable going to your camera to OUT (pin 3) of the 555, and the board's ground.  You might consider jumping these signals to J2 for ease of connection, in which case you might want to disconnect J2 from the relay, or just use the two signals that are open-circuited when the relay is off (should be COM and NO).  Note that you don't need a second power supply -- the 555 is supplying the ~5V signal directly to the camera.

If I were designing this circuit from scratch, I'd probably add a 5V regulator between the battery and the 555, so that you could use any battery voltage 6V-12V and still be confident about getting a controlled voltage to your camera.

Randy