---
node: Calibrating DIY NIR cameras – part 1
author: nedhorning
created_at: 2013-10-23 15:38:12 +0000
timestamp: 1382542692
nid: 9509
cid: 7329
uid: 133
---



[nedhorning](../profile/nedhorning) replying to: [Calibrating DIY NIR cameras – part 1](../notes/nedhorning/10-21-2013/calibrating-diy-nir-cameras-part-1)

----
Thanks for the comments Chris. I might have overstated the influence that different shutter speed, aperture and ISO could affect NDVI but I expect they do have some influence. I am working on the assumption (mostly a guess) that changing those values does not have the same effect on each band. For example if you halved the shutter speed you would have half the light hitting the sensor but I expect that the camera processes that in such a way that the output for each band is not halved unless you were shooting in RAW mode. That just a guess on my part but it should be easy to test. 

It would be good to get additional targets to fill in the gaps that you mention. At this point I'm tempted to see if we can find a spectrometer to measure reflectance of different colors of construction paper or something like that to see if that can fill in the gaps and also provide an easier DIY solution for calibration - like the card you mention. The downside is that it might take a while to do this unless someone is willing and able to help. 

Applying the regression coefficients is just applying a gain and offset to each image. You multiply each pixel value by the slope (gain) and add the intercept (offset) for the blue and red bands then use the resulting images to create NDVI. It should be fairly easy to do using the Sandbox.

I did the multiple regressions mostly out of curiosity. I would need more rigorous methods to assess the benefits of one over the other. 

The NDVI values are quite close to the NDVI calculated using the reference data (the last table in the note). Sorry about the color table. I was looking for something continuous and seemed to be better than gray. 

I'll try to get some more of the images in a note today or tomorrow comparing different white balance,  exposure compensation settings and the Rosco vs G11 SuperBlue. By the end of the week I'll try to add the dual camera comparison which is going to initiate some more discussion. I have all of the processed images on my ftp site now in case you want check them out. The NDVI1 images are from simple regression and NDVI2 is multi-regression. 
