---
cid: 7341
node: [Calibrating DIY NIR cameras – part 2](../notes/nedhorning/10-23-2013/calibrating-diy-nir-cameras-part-2)
nid: 9538
created_at: 2013-10-25 04:07:52 +0000
timestamp: 1382674072
uid: 554
author: [cfastie](../profile/cfastie)
---

Ned,  

This is really good data. The primary result seems to be that the calibration procedure works incredibly well. Similar NDVI results are produced even when very different white balance settings are used to take the photos. Two very different cameras also produced similar NDVI results. It looks like you are on to something.  

The simple regression results suggest a few patterns:  

1. Exposure does not matter much. Bright or darker photos produce similar results with your calibration procedure.
2. The widest range of NDVI values is produced when the camera is white balanced on blue origami paper (wider is probably better).
3. The narrowest range of NDVI values is produced when the camera's built in white balance setting is used.
4. The Superblue filter produces a wider range of NDVI values than the Rosco 2008 filter (wider is probably better).
5. All the trials produced NDVI values for green grass at the high end of the scale, probably unreasonably high.  

I am really curious to see what the original infrablue photos look like when their RGB values have been adjusted by the calibration regression. You don't have to produce those modified photos in your workflow, but it would be really interesting to see them.  

Why do you think the general range of NDVI values produced is higher than it should be?  

This is a very important advance.

[cfastie](../profile/cfastie) replying to: [Calibrating DIY NIR cameras – part 2](../notes/nedhorning/10-23-2013/calibrating-diy-nir-cameras-part-2)

