---
cid: 7344
node: [Calibrating DIY NIR cameras – part 2](../notes/nedhorning/10-23-2013/calibrating-diy-nir-cameras-part-2)
nid: 9538
created_at: 2013-10-25 12:13:37 +0000
timestamp: 1382703217
uid: 133
author: [nedhorning](../profile/nedhorning)
---

Thanks for the comments Chris. I would be a little cautious drawing more than very broad conclusions at this point. The reflectance values for the targets are ball-park estimates and more importantly the sample data I selected, especially for the grass are probably not representative of reference reflectance values. I expect that's why there is a general over-estimation of NDVI for the grass. My guess is that the reference grass reflectance was derived from a lab spectrometer with "ideal" grass and my sample was an average from one part of the photo. The average value I calculated will almost certainly represent a lower NDVI than the reference. It probably would have been better to select a pixel value for grass at the high end of the sample rather than the average. This experiment is fairly sloppy but my intent is mostly to get a sense if this path is worth following and to understand some basic relationships. I want to get better reflectance standards so that's my next mission. I should be easy but need to find someone willing to cooperate. I'm going to try to get the next note out by the end of the day which will show results from the dual-camera and also calibrating directly to (Landsat-based) NDVI instead of calibrating to reflectance and then calculating NDVI. There are lots of ways to explore these data and hope I don't get too distracted.

[nedhorning](../profile/nedhorning) replying to: [Calibrating DIY NIR cameras – part 2](../notes/nedhorning/10-23-2013/calibrating-diy-nir-cameras-part-2)

