---
cid: 7362
node: [Calibrating DIY NIR cameras - part 3](../notes/nedhorning/10-25-2013/calibrating-diy-nir-cameras-part-3)
nid: 9550
created_at: 2013-10-28 12:33:01 +0000
timestamp: 1382963581
uid: 133
author: [nedhorning](../profile/nedhorning)
---

Thanks for your comments. I am rethinking the idea that a blue filter is sensitive to chlorophyll absorption. Blue wavelengths have similar reflectance properties when compared to red for green healthy vegetation but as vegetation senesces the red response jumps up a lot and blue hardly changes. The NIR drops a bit but not enough to produce great contrast in NDVI between living and dead vegetation. I put a table at the bottom of part 1 of the calibration notes (http://publiclab.org/notes/nedhorning/10-21-2013/calibrating-diy-nir-cameras-part-1) that shows the difference in NDVI for a few materials when using blue and red in the NDVI equation. I was quite surprised to see so many materials that have spectral curves with low blue and high red and NIR reflectance properties. This could use some more investigation but that's my primary reason for looking into red filters. There are some practical issues related to using red filters but I think I'm on the way to sorting those out.

I am considering the use of a two-color reference panel but am concerned that use only the extreme reflectance values but am concerned that the dynamic range of the cameras we are using might saturate well before they should with the black or bright white targets. That concern might be unfounded but I'd like to test it. I'd love to get access to a monochromator to test sensor sensitivity and figure out how to record radiance but haven't had luck so far. I'm using an array of LEDs at the moment with moderate success but that's only giving me relative differences. Using the spectral curves of the filters is useful to a point but the filters over the sensor (Bayer filter) adds complexity since they are have very wide band-pass characteristics and in addition to the portions of the visible spectrum they are designed to pass they also pass lots of NIR light. The LEDs are a nice learning tool to put some logic to which wavelengths are recorded in each channel with different filters. 

[nedhorning](../profile/nedhorning) replying to: [Calibrating DIY NIR cameras - part 3](../notes/nedhorning/10-25-2013/calibrating-diy-nir-cameras-part-3)

