---
node: Calibrating DIY NIR cameras - part 3
author: cfastie
created_at: 2013-10-28 14:42:42 +0000
timestamp: 1382971362
nid: 9550
cid: 7363
uid: 554
---



[cfastie](../profile/cfastie) replying to: [Calibrating DIY NIR cameras - part 3](../notes/nedhorning/10-25-2013/calibrating-diy-nir-cameras-part-3)

----
I am confused about the idea of using a red filter instead of blue in a one camera NDVI system. Is the idea to use the red channel for visible light and use the blue channel for NIR light? The reason the Canon Powershots work as well as they do as infrablue cameras is that the blue channel does not record too much NIR, presumably because the CFA (Bayer filters) over the blue pixels do not pass much NIR. So a red filter that passed red visible light but not blue could allow insufficient NIR to reach the blue channel. There might also be lots of NIR contaminating the red channel, but that needs to be tested. This approach might be a solution for inexpensive CMOS cameras that seem to have a very different CFA and let lots of NIR into the blue channel. But maybe you were thinking about a different approach.

For aerial photos from a few hundred feet up on a clear day, scattering of blue light (haze) should not be too much of a problem. If your goal is absolute values for NDVI after calibrating on reflectance targets, those targets should be in some of the aerial photos, so the scattering will be accounted for. If you goal is just relative NDVI values, scattering is not an issue as long as the altitude of the camera is constant. Scattering is certainly a problem for higher altitude photos, especially in hazy conditions. The effect is conspicuous in oblique aerial photos (http://publiclab.org/notes/cfastie/06-26-2013/infrablue-haze). It would be good to learn more about correcting for scattering. How would you do that? The amount of scattering will depend on the particle composition of the air, which would have to be measured?  Another approach might be to use a polarizing filter since scattered blue light is polarized. But that polarization depends on the angle at which the scattered light is emitted relative to its incident angle. In certain situations, e.g., when the camera is pointed 90° to the incoming sunlight, scattered light arriving at the camera is well polarized. Otherwise only some of it is polarized. For vertical kite or balloon photos in the middle of the day, most of the scattered light may not be polarized, but the haze could be partially reduced if the camera (and polarizing filter) orientation could be controlled.