---
node: Calibrating DIY NIR cameras - part 3
author: nedhorning
created_at: 2013-10-28 15:35:15 +0000
timestamp: 1382974515
nid: 9550
cid: 7364
uid: 133
---



[nedhorning](../profile/nedhorning) replying to: [Calibrating DIY NIR cameras - part 3](../notes/nedhorning/10-25-2013/calibrating-diy-nir-cameras-part-3)

----
Chris - It's interesting that you find that the Canon Powershots don't record much NIR in the blue channel. I found just the opposite - that the blue channel records (very) slightly more NIR than the red channel. When I  take a photo of a NIR LED with a camera that has a 850nm NIR pass filter the blue channel is somewhat brighter than the red channel if I set the white balance using a gray card. In the research note you posted doing a similar test the blue channel also recorded a lot of NIR light unless you set white balance using a blue card which is not (at least I don't think it is) representative of what is actually being recorded by the sensor. In any case I'm working on a protocol to subtract the NIR influence from the red channel when a red filter is used and it seems to be working. Also, the blue channel on my red filter camera is very sensitive to NIR light so for now I'm not worried about that.

As far as atmospheric correction there are several different methods that are used and abused in remote sensing. The choice often depends on what ancillary data you have to work with. In the absence of actual atmospheric data there are some models/algorithms that let you set a coefficient based on what you think the atmospheric conditions were when the photo was taken and there are others that use dark targets on the ground that should have very low or no reflectance like water to calibrate (basically just shift the histograms until the dark target pixels are set to zero. I know of very few cases where atmospheric corrections were done on aerial photos. I expect it's more complex than it is for satellite imagery. From my limited experience polarization filters don't help much with haze in aerial photos but maybe I'm not using them properly.