---
cid: 7441
node: [Red vs. blue filters for NDVI](../notes/nedhorning/10-30-2013/red-vs-blue-filters-for-ndvi)
nid: 9691
created_at: 2013-11-05 13:36:14 +0000
timestamp: 1383658574
uid: 133
author: [nedhorning](../profile/nedhorning)
---

Chris, So many questions... I think more testing is necessary but I'll take a shot at answering each question. I'd like to hear what other folks think. 

**What is the main message to people making decisions about what filter material: **
At this point I am pretty convinced that a red filter is superior to a blue filter if your intent is to monitor vegetation health. It appears to be more sensitive to changes plant productivity. A blue filter will still work but if you have a choice I think you're better off with a red filter. 

**and workflow to use?** The workflow depends on the goal. If you just want to see changes in an image then doing custom stretches is probably easiest. If you want to compare your results with other measurements then some sort of calibration protocol would be helpful.  

**What do you really gain by using a red filter? ** The primary gain with regard to monitoring vegetation health/productivity is that a red filter will be more sensitive to changes across a photo and over time. On top of that is the improved clarity due to less scattering of red light and using a red band is the defacto standard for calculating NDVI so it's easier / more accurate to compare with other NDVI products.

**What are the real advantages of making calibrated NDVI images?** Calibration has the advantage of producing a product that should more accurately represent physical measurements. If we calibrate each band the measurement is reflectance and if we calibrate to NDVI then the measurement is NDVI. Manually stretching histograms can also produce good results but the output will be more subjective.

**Is it possible for a typical user to reduce the considerable obstacles to making calibrated NDVI images?** I think it's up to us (the atypical users) to figure out a way to reduce the obstacles. Calibration of most instruments is a bit of a bother but only because it requires a few extra steps. The calibration seems confusing now because we're still experimenting but my goal is to have a protocol that is easy to follow. I might be posting more details than I should. Hopefully by Spring we'll have something easy to use.

[nedhorning](../profile/nedhorning) replying to: [Red vs. blue filters for NDVI](../notes/nedhorning/10-30-2013/red-vs-blue-filters-for-ndvi)

