---
cid: 7512
node: [Focus on filters](../notes/cfastie/11-07-2013/focus-on-filters)
nid: 9744
created_at: 2013-11-11 03:12:46 +0000
timestamp: 1384139566
uid: 554
author: [cfastie](../profile/cfastie)
---

The aperture mechanism definitely varies among Powershots. By peering into the front of the lens I learned that the high end ones have an actual iris with leaves and can produce an aperture of multiple sizes. The A495 apparently has only two different apertures which seem to be round but I don't know how one replaces the other (elastic?). The simpler cameras have no variable aperture and instead move one or more neutral density filters into the optical path. So f-stop does not influence depth of field in the SD1100 and A2200.

| ......Camera......|.............. Variable Iris..........   |     .......ND filter(s)  |  
| -------------------------- |:-----------------------:| :--------------------:|  
| SD1100| no | yes|  
| A2200 | no     |   yes |  
| A495 | yes (2 round holes)    |    ? |  
| SX120 | yes (~6 leaves)    |    ? |  
| S95 | yes (6 leaves)     |    ? |  
  
.  
Okay, the markdown above displays properly in preview mode, but not when published. So... 

Camera --- Variable Iris--------ND filter(s)  

SD1100------no----------------yes  
A2200--------no----------------yes  
A495----------yes (2 round holes)---?  
SX120--------yes (~6 leaves)-------- ?  
S95------------yes (6 leaves)-------- ?  
.  
  

Assuming the BG3 glass filter I installed is seated properly, the soft edges in the A2200 photos must be due to different optical properties of the glass compared to the original IR block filter (different thickness or glass density) or a failure to properly focus NIR light compared to visible, or both. First I should open up the camera again and wiggle everything to see if that helps.

There are lots of A2200 cameras for sale for $70, and some for $55, but those don't include shipping. The [Canon refurbished store](http://shop.usa.canon.com/shop/en/catalog/refurbished-products/refurbished-powershot-digital-cameras) sells them for $70 including shipping, and they have periodic sales. For this week, you get $20 off if you spend $100.


[cfastie](../profile/cfastie) replying to: [Focus on filters](../notes/cfastie/11-07-2013/focus-on-filters)

