---
node: Obliques of City Park Stormwater wetland Nov 9th
author: cfastie
created_at: 2013-11-13 02:45:34 +0000
timestamp: 1384310734
nid: 9758
cid: 7542
uid: 554
---



[cfastie](../profile/cfastie) replying to: [Obliques of City Park Stormwater wetland Nov 9th](../notes/eustatic/11-10-2013/obliques-of-city-park-stormwater-wetland-nov-9th)

----
Scott is right that georeferencing obliques is usually not very rewarding. Photosynth can be a solution. You can  make a "synth" which aligns the overlapping oblique photos with each other and allows navigation from one photo to the next while displayed in 3D space. The photos are not stitched together, and It is strangely unsatisfying but might have value in some cases. Here is an example with 88 photos with almost half spherical coverage: http://photosynth.net/view.aspx?cid=3f34a7a9-ff25-4c02-8ca5-cc1105022b3c.  If the photos will stitch together, for example in ICE, then they can be exported to Photosynth where they can be displayed in a nice spherical viewer. Here is an example of the same site as above (different flight) with 37 photos stitched into a seamless half-spherical panorama: http://photosynth.net/view.aspx?cid=7d9cc3a9-b33e-4050-890d-029f9a725049.  That is much more satisfying, but requires lots of photos taken from about the same place and complete coverage with good overlap.  Even without complete 360 coverage, stitching overlapping obliques into aerial panoramas for display at Photosynth can be very effective. Here is a panorama from 16 aerial obliques stitched in ICE and exported directly to Photosynth: http://photosynth.net/view.aspx?cid=68d7c1be-0508-4a81-9068-a00f152f80ac.  Earlier during that same flight, enough photos were captured to make a half-spherical panorama: http://photosynth.net/view.aspx?cid=1f65dcb9-6c0d-4d84-99e6-ab7569eef21b. So really, this is a lot more fun than taking vertical shots and making flat maps!