---
cid: 7543
node: [Pole photography on a small neighborhood creek](../notes/kanarinka/11-12-2013/pole-photography-on-a-small-neighborhood-creek)
nid: 9770
created_at: 2013-11-13 13:55:12 +0000
timestamp: 1384350912
uid: 554
author: [cfastie](../profile/cfastie)
---

This is a great map. Congrats on the success and especially on getting out to do a trial run. 

- To sort photos by blurriness, sort the jpegs by file size. The blurry ones are smaller because they are easier to compress. Jeff made a web site that does this (URL?).
- You can use MapKnitter to crudely georeference the map. Upload it to MapKnitter and align it with the base map. MapKnitter has a 10 MB file upload limit, so you might have to cut your map into smaller pieces and upload and align separately. Then export as geotiff. 
- To improve the result on the next outing:
    - The Nex 5N has shutter priority mode. Set it to about 1/300 second or faster. 
    - Raise the ISO before you lower the shutter speed. That nice sensor will make good images even at ISO 400 (but better at ISO 200)
    - The Nex 5N has a potential hack for interval shooting. This is a long shot, but it might be worth trying: 
       -  Under "Continuous shooting" select "Continuous shooting."  Under "Drive mode" select "10 sec 3 or 5 images" (this waits 10 seconds and then takes 3 photos.) If that doesn't work, select "Continuous shooting" and also "Self timer" (can be set to either 2 or 10 seconds). 
    - The Nex 5N has image stabilization. Results might be better with this turned off. It is not designed for fishing poles.
    - If the entire stream is not in the sun all at once, shoot your photos at different times so they are all in the sun (nobody will know).

The Nex 5N has an infrared sensor for remote triggering. If the interval shooting hack above does not work, you can buy (or build) a device that blinks (in the correct pattern) an infrared LED every 10 seconds and mount it in front of the sensor. Commercial versions that work with the Nex 5N are $50 to $80: [GentLED](http://www.gentles.ltd.uk/gentled/auto.htm) and [Tempus](http://tempus.bymac.org/). However, a $10 remote will probably work 10 feet away, so you can just trigger the camera manually from the ground. Maybe hold the remote between your teeth.

The detail in the map allows the trees growing along the stream to be identified as weeping willow, white oak, sugar maple, and beech. Next time I expect to be able to identify the grasses.

[cfastie](../profile/cfastie) replying to: [Pole photography on a small neighborhood creek](../notes/kanarinka/11-12-2013/pole-photography-on-a-small-neighborhood-creek)

