---
cid: 7856
node: [Glow in the dark paint photos](../notes/nathanathan/12-04-2013/glow-in-the-dark-paint-photos)
nid: 9857
created_at: 2013-12-11 02:15:03 +0000
timestamp: 1386728103
uid: 365600
author: [nathanathan](../profile/nathanathan)
---

I think the Camera FV-5 Approach of adding multiple image might work. The noise, if it's randomly distributed, should just sum to gray, while the illuminated pixels should accumulate more. Although, the illuminated pixels might not accumulate in proportion to their intensity. If a pixel with 0.8 illumination varies between 0 and 1 so that it is 1 80% of the time and 0 20% of the time the accumulation might be proportional. Another issues is that I suspect Camera FV-5 sums the images in a way that causes the illuminated pixels to be lost due to rounding error, because I haven't been able to get them to show up at all with its long exposure method.

I've discovered that the glow in the dark paint is actually quite visible in my camera's night mode and low light mode for about 30 seconds after being charged by being held approximately 5 inches from a light bulb. Since the paint discharges so quickly brightness calibration might be tricky. I think it could still be automated. The paints seem to discharge at different rates, and that could be exploited to determine the absolute brightness because the brightness of the paints relative to each-other might indicate how long they have been discharging.

[nathanathan](../profile/nathanathan) replying to: [Glow in the dark paint photos](../notes/nathanathan/12-04-2013/glow-in-the-dark-paint-photos)

