---
node: Potentiostat Notes 2: Software
author: JSummers
created_at: 2013-12-28 21:53:42 +0000
timestamp: 1388267622
nid: 9911
cid: 7963
uid: 304279
---



[JSummers](../profile/JSummers) replying to: [Potentiostat Notes 2: Software](../notes/JSummers/12-20-2013/potentiostat-software)

----
Hi Mark,
Once again an oversight on my part.  I am very new to coding myself.  If I had more experience with it I would probably have less difficulty remembering all the steps to making it work.  I think I need to do some editing to the research note once we have all this figured out so that the process works a little better.  A friend recommended that I put the SPI library on GitHub for people to download.  I think that may make some sense.  
Anyway, the SPI folder in the lm4f libraries folder should have two files that need to be modified, these are named SPI.h and SPI.cpp,

In my SPI.h file, I added the following lines at about line 60:

    uint8_t trans2ByteA(uint8_t);         //  new function
    uint8_t trans2ByteB(uint8_t);         //  new function
                                         // transfers 2 bytes

A colleague of mine recommended the following instead.  If my version doesn't work, I would try his: 

    uint8_t trans2ByteA(uint8_t data);
    uint8_t trans2ByteB(uint8_t data);

In the SPI.cpp file, at line 210, I have the following (note, the next three lines define the command "transfer()", are already be in the file.  I included these to make it easier to see where the new code should go) :

    uint8_t SPIClass::transfer(uint8_t data) {
    return transfer(slaveSelect, data, SPI_LAST);
    }

below the transfer definition is where I added the trans2Byte defs

    uint8_t SPIClass::trans2ByteA(uint8_t data) {

    return transfer(slaveSelect, data, SPI_CONTINUE);

    }
    uint8_t SPIClass::trans2ByteB(uint8_t data) {

    return transfer(slaveSelect, data, SPI_LAST);

    }

Here's to a happy new year.  Let me know what that does.
