---
node: Usability of Public Lab's NDVI and Kite/Balloon Mapping for Remote Sensing in Academics/Research
author: nedhorning
created_at: 2014-01-02 13:41:54 +0000
timestamp: 1388670114
nid: 9919
cid: 7979
uid: 133
---



[nedhorning](../profile/nedhorning) replying to: [Usability of Public Lab's NDVI and Kite/Balloon Mapping for Remote Sensing in Academics/Research](../notes/Roolark/01-01-2014/usability-of-public-lab-s-ndvi-and-kite-balloon-mapping-for-remote-sensing-in-academics-research)

----
Hi Roolark - 

This sound like an interesting project. I hope you keep us posted with your progress. I think there is a lot of value in pairing Landsat imagery with DIY aerial photography. There is no doubt that DIY aerial cameras can be used in scientific research if rigorous methods are used. Effectively what you are trying to do is downscale or disaggregate the information in the Landsat signal to get information at a finer scale. If you accept that the Landsat data is of high quality then your task is to determine how the energy in a pixel is distributed within a pixel. As you mention, an important step in this process is to accurately align the aerial images so they are coincident with the Landsat image. In addition to using automated classification on the photos you might want to try visual/manual interpretation. 

In my experience it is still quite cumbersome to use automated classification methods with uncontrolled aerial photos. If you want to try automated classification it will be best if you can constrain as many image acquisition variables (flying height, camera orientation, time of day/solar angle, exposure settings...) as possible. The low spectral resolution of the PLOTS system is (nearly) the least of the limitations. 

All the best, 

Ned