---
node: Usability of Public Lab's NDVI and Kite/Balloon Mapping for Remote Sensing in Academics/Research
author: Roolark
created_at: 2014-01-02 18:59:27 +0000
timestamp: 1388689167
nid: 9919
cid: 7981
uid: 411681
---



[Roolark](../profile/Roolark) replying to: [Usability of Public Lab's NDVI and Kite/Balloon Mapping for Remote Sensing in Academics/Research](../notes/Roolark/01-01-2014/usability-of-public-lab-s-ndvi-and-kite-balloon-mapping-for-remote-sensing-in-academics-research)

----
Ned,

Thank you for your interest and input. There are some details I'm still working on putting together, to include in the research note. I haven't been able to obtain reasonable imagery yet because the wind has been uncharacteristically calm here in Albuquerque (for kites) and I don't yet have a balloon.

I plan to collect my aerial imagery around the same times and dates as the Landsat 8 imagery I will be using. I will also be performing the appropriate dark-object-subtraction atmospheric correction on the Landsat imagery.

The reference vector point/polygon classification file I plan to use, for comparison to both the Landsat and kite/balloon imagery will consist of both heads-up digitizing AND in situ observations. With the field observations, I may be able to borrow our department's field spectrometer too, which would be very useful in measuring the spectral accuracy of the NDVI (and NDSI) infragram on vegetation and snow for features large enough to be discernible. Alternatively, I could use a portable (offline) implementation of the PLOTS desktop spectrometer for this purpose... although that may require an accuracy assessment of that product, in order to use it for accuracy assessments of the others?

I have a reasonably accurate GPS device that I will be attaching to my imaging rig, and I can coordinate the seconds between measurements to closely match the CHDK image intervals, in order to discern location and elevation of the rig. Unfortunately, I don't know a really great way to determine exactly what the flight altitude of each picture will be, but the GPS should give me at least a rough estimation. 

If you have any other suggestions, please let me know, I'm all ears. This is for my departmental honor's thesis, and as I mentioned in my research note, my ultimate goal would be to use these tools (if practicable) for conducting further environmental research for graduate school.