---
cid: 8005
node: [Thermal Flashlight from hacked, off-the-shelf Pocket IR Thermometer ](../notes/code4maine/01-03-2014/thermal-flashlight-from-hacked-off-the-shelf-pocket-ir-thermometer)
nid: 9922
created_at: 2014-01-08 16:42:15 +0000
timestamp: 1389199335
uid: 294634
author: [ajawitz](../profile/ajawitz)
---

Right now I think the goal would be to see any kind of range in the output so as to adjust the LED code accordingly. The current serial output above and not only do the numbers remain unchanged, but something is clearly off in the readings as I can guarantee the temperature was not 210.20 F at the time (I would've settled for 59 Degrees indoors, but these past couple days have been insane!)   If I remember right, the factory state requires the user to push the button every time they want a new reading.
This probably entails some kind of interrupt code that resets the sensor at regular intervals.  Or intervals could be set to predefined positions on a pan/tilt servo mount.  I'll post the sketch I'm using once I finally figure out the Markdown keystrokes for indenting blocks of Arduino code.  Failing that I'll  link to a Github repo.
 
   As far as a full thermal flashlight build-out is concerned, I wonder if anybody has tried using the Melexis Evaluation Board from Sparkfun (https://www.sparkfun.com/products/10740).  Considering the standalone sensor was pushing the price threshold at $20, the $50 eval board is definitely over the line for a hobbyist BUT it DOES include an ATMEGA328 Microcontroller embedded right into the PCB.  Theoretically this means it could be programmed as a standalone unit with no need for an external Arduino.  Assuming it has enough extra outputs to trigger a string of RGB LEDs it seems like the perfect form factor for a modded flashlight ala- http://www.maxjusticz.com/light-painting-with-temperature/

[ajawitz](../profile/ajawitz) replying to: [Thermal Flashlight from hacked, off-the-shelf Pocket IR Thermometer ](../notes/code4maine/01-03-2014/thermal-flashlight-from-hacked-off-the-shelf-pocket-ir-thermometer)

