---
node: Will Infragram help with Indoor Hydroponics/Aquaponics?
author: cfastie
created_at: 2014-01-15 19:53:15 +0000
timestamp: 1389815595
nid: 9946
cid: 8034
uid: 554
---



[cfastie](../profile/cfastie) replying to: [Will Infragram help with Indoor Hydroponics/Aquaponics?](../notes/code4maine/01-15-2014/will-infragram-help-with-indoor-hydroponics-aquaponics)

----
I  think you are correct that if the only source of light is blue and red LEDs that emit little NIR, the NIR channel in an Infragram camera is going to be very dark and will not tell you much. Maybe more importantly, the calculation of NDVI uses the NIR channel as sort of a measure of incoming light. If the light source is the sun, the proportion of visible and NIR wavelengths will be somewhat constant, so the more light there is, the more NIR there will be. Because healthy plant leaves reflect almost all of the NIR, the Infragram NIR channel in an image of a leaf is a good proxy for how bright the scene was. However, healthy plant leaves will not reflect all the visible light, and the reduction in a plant image’s visible band compared to the NIR band is the basis for NDVI. 

So adding NIR LEDs (or any light with some NIR) would be possible, but you would have to know the proportion of visible to NIR impacting the leaves to know how absorption by healthy plant pigments changed that proportion. So the system would have to be calibrated somehow to compare results with other NDVI results.  Or even without calibration, if the light was kept constant you could monitor change through time that was due to changes in plant growth, or relative differences among plant species or treatments. That's really all we have done with Infragram so far anyway. It's even easier to do in a growhouse where the lightsource is absolutely constant.

An Infragram-like technique might be useful for pinkhousing to monitor the proportion of red and blue being emitted by the LEDs and the proportion being absorbed by plants. For example, if the plants are reflecting away most of the red, then maybe you can reduce the number or brightness of red LEDs. This could be done with an unmodified camera and then submitting the photos to the Infragram sandbox for custom processing.
