---
cid: 8044
node: [Absorption spectra makes sense?](../notes/dckim11/01-16-2014/absorption-spectra-makes-sense)
nid: 9950
created_at: 2014-01-17 22:21:39 +0000
timestamp: 1389997299
uid: 54025
author: [stoft](../profile/stoft)
---

Just a few thoughts,
Yes, there may well be some "glowing" (refraction) effect of the substance as the light shines through it, but I think that's not the whole concept to consider here.

Consider doing a test with food coloring (no physical structures to refract). With Green coloring, what your eye sees is "mostly" green as the transmission of light is attenuated for all other wavelengths -- i.e. relatively transparent for green. Yes, there is a little attenuation in the Green band but the major impact you can measure is attenuation of other spectra.

Yes, as noted, for such measurements, you do not want the sharp-band spectr of the CFL -- instead you want a very broadband light source -- like a Halogen (Solux is pretty good). That way you are watching a much smoother curve attenuate outside of the green.

That said, yes, I'd agree that there should be some relationship between the attenuation in the green band and the density of the substance. (Concept: If you only look at the green light where the chlorophyll is blocking the light you might get attenuation of green -- however, there might be a lot of refraction obscuring the measurement).  I'm not sure which is more measurable -- attenuation in the Green or attenuation outside the green band I suspect the later is more sensitive. If you want to measure in-band attenuation, you could experiment with using a green food coloring reference (instead of clear water) (attenuate all else so as to see just the green) and then add the substance.

The alternate concept is to look at reflected spectr instead of transmitted spectra (albeit that is harder). With just water over a non-reflective black, adding chlorophyll would then add a green spectral band -- in which case you'd be viewing reflection, not absorption.

Go back to the simple, use a broadband source and try green food coloring, or add coloring to a drop of oil floating on the water reference.

Hope something here is useful.
Cheers,
Dave


[stoft](../profile/stoft) replying to: [Absorption spectra makes sense?](../notes/dckim11/01-16-2014/absorption-spectra-makes-sense)

