---
node: Thermal flashlight design (+ thermal fishing bob, too?)
author: donblair
created_at: 2014-01-28 23:40:50 +0000
timestamp: 1390952450
nid: 9981
cid: 8102
uid: 43651
---



[donblair](../profile/donblair) replying to: [Thermal flashlight design (+ thermal fishing bob, too?)](../notes/donblair/01-26-2014/thermal-flashlight-design-thermal-fishing-bob-too)

----
Woohoo!  Quick replies / queries:

- Do you have a link to the Visualight schematics?  I should check them out, as Jeff was hoping to use their more powerful LED, and we might be able to incorporate that onto this board ...
- The "Github for Hardware" (nice way of putting that!) is something that so many folks I've met have been interested in ... farmhack.net had something like that in their tools wiki ... and Upverter seems cool ... but one issue it seems is that there are so many design tools out there, and so many file formats -- and so many ideas for what would constitute a 'design' -- that it's hard to accomodate all of that in one platform.  Frankly, I'm finding publiclab.org's research note + wiki approach to be a pretty good solution, in this regard -- it's a flexible and fast way of putting up notes around a design ... witnessed in this note and its comments! :)  But it's great to think about what the ideal solution would be (and build it / or incorporate it into the publiclab.org platform) ...
- I'd be happy if you based your design off mine -- please feel free!  The only caveat -- I don't *quite* know what I'm doing, and I haven't really checked my design, so you might be better off using e.g. Rui Wang's "Squarewear" design as a reference, to begin with -- I know that his design works :)  Let me know if you need any help with that idea -- it sounds like a really cool one!
- I haven't used Upverter, myself.  I'm finding that the free version of Eagle isn't so hard to learn (there are some great tutorials on Sparkfun and on Youtube).  It's not open source, and I'm trying to move into gEDA / KiCAD ... but for designs based off Eagle schematics, Eagle has been the fastest way for me to work something up quickly.  
- Idea:  Rui's [Squarewear design](http://rayshobby.net/?page_id=2686) uses a bootloader he wrote that allows one to use the Arduino IDE on an Atmega328 [*without* requiring an additional chip to handle USB](http://rayshobby.net/?p=7363).  This means that one could conceivably use a through-hole Atmega328p, a through-hole RGB LED, and a through-hole coin cell holder ... basically, I think the entire design could be a through-hole, easy to solder kit.  Would that be a good idea?  Or do we think it's more important to be able to assemble a lot of these easily  (a surface mount design would be better in that case) ....