---
node: NDVI with Canon A2300, APM Hexacopter DJI550, Help
author: cfastie
created_at: 2014-01-29 15:36:40 +0000
timestamp: 1391009800
nid: 9986
cid: 8106
uid: 554
---



[cfastie](../profile/cfastie) replying to: [NDVI with Canon A2300, APM Hexacopter DJI550, Help](../notes/Andresc4/01-28-2014/ndvi-with-canon-a2300-apm-hexacopter-dji550-help)

----
Andres,

- CHDK settings: It appears that you have the synchronous camera triggering working, so of the other CHDK settings for aerial photography the most important is probably shutter priority mode to keep the shutter speed high (~1/800 second). This is mentioned [here](http://publiclab.org/wiki/canon-a495-tips) and described  [here](http://publiclab.org/wiki/dual-camera-kit-software), but I think newer versions of CHDK work differently.
- Having the Rosco filter on the outside is fine, but it is not protected and not shaded from the sun (that's okay for vertical shots).
- The Rosco filter will give you a decent NIR image in the red channel. A piece of exposed, developed color print film (or unexposed developed color slide film) is a very good NIR filter -- it blocks most visible light and passes lots of IR. But it is not as optically clear and passes less NIR than a good Wratten 87 filter. I'm not sure whether Rosco 2007 or exposed film is a better NIR filter.
- Fiji tutorials: That would be a great thing to have. Installing Fiji seems to be pretty easy, and installing Ned's photomonitoring plugin is described in [Ned's guide](https://github.com/nedhorning/PhotoMonitoringPlugin/blob/master/PhotoMonitoringPluginGuide.odt). Using the plugin is also described in Ned's guide, but it would be really helpful to have a video tutorial for that (especially on making the text file of photo pairs). Fiji and Ned's plugin are incredibly powerful tools for processing VIS/NIR pairs or Infragram photos, so it is worthwhile taking the time to figure them out.