---
node: NDVI with Canon A2300, APM Hexacopter DJI550, Help
author: cfastie
created_at: 2014-01-31 13:36:33 +0000
timestamp: 1391175393
nid: 9986
cid: 8133
uid: 554
---



[cfastie](../profile/cfastie) replying to: [NDVI with Canon A2300, APM Hexacopter DJI550, Help](../notes/Andresc4/01-28-2014/ndvi-with-canon-a2300-apm-hexacopter-dji550-help)

----
Stewart got great NDVI results from his two GoPros, which have CMOS sensors. If you are using a two camera system like that, CMOS is not a problem because one camera records normally (visible light only) and the other is converted to record only NIR. It is only when you make a one camera system (infrablue or superred) from a CMOS camera that the differences between CMOS and CCD become conspicuous. Much more work is needed to learn how to make good NDVI from a single CMOS camera system. The problem appears to be getting a good visible light channel that is not contaminated with NIR. The NIR channel (red in infrablue and blue in superred) seems to be good. But when you remove the factory IR block filter from a CMOS camera, all three channels (RGB) seem to get lots of NIR light. So if you want to make a two camera system with a GoPro (or any CMOS camera), remove the IR block filter from one camera and replace it with an IR pass filter (which blocks all visible light) like the Wratten 87 or developed color film. If you instead replace the IR block filter with Rosco 2007, the red channel will be an okay NIR band, but the blue and green channels will probably be contaminated with NIR and not so useful. So if the visible bands in the converted camera are not useful, its better to install a good IR pass filter so you get a pure NIR image.

A dual camera system like that with one pure visible camera and one pure NIR camera will give NDVI results that are much easier to interpret and much easier to compare with legacy NDVI. Single camera systems are not as good, but they weigh half as much, need no electronics for synchronization, and require no photo alignment. So they have obvious advantages for aerial use and for casual users. 