---
node: Thermal flashlight design (+ thermal fishing bob, too?)
author: donblair
created_at: 2014-02-02 02:34:25 +0000
timestamp: 1391308465
nid: 9981
cid: 8140
uid: 43651
---



[donblair](../profile/donblair) replying to: [Thermal flashlight design (+ thermal fishing bob, too?)](../notes/donblair/01-26-2014/thermal-flashlight-design-thermal-fishing-bob-too)

----
Hi!  Sorry for the delayed reply -- been a bit crazy with other projects, but still excited about this!

On reflection, rather than add extra power circuitry for a more powerful LED, I'm thinking that it might make sense to just add a few extra LEDs in parallel on the same board.  I can add a few to the design, and then we can see whether the board is bright enough under typical conditions ...

Great thoughts re: "github for hardware" ... it's definitely a needed thing ... and maybe we're helping to build it out / prototype it here!

Very cool find re: the Perma-Prota Breadboard PCB ... will check that out ...

Re: the 328 vs the 32u4 -- good thoughts there, too.  So, several options:

1. 328 through-hole + chip that provides USB interface
2. 328 through-hole, w/out said chip, but using Rui's bootloader to allow for USB communication
3. 32u4 chip (surface mount)

I think the only advantages of 1) and 2) over 3) is the 'through-hole kit' aspect -- even 2) isn't much cheaper than 3).  

So, if we'd like to do through hole + simple, 2) might be a good way to go. The downside is that you can't use the usual Arduino serial monitor with the board -- need to find another way to get serial off the board (Processing, a Python script ...)

If surface mount is okay / preferable, then 32u4. 

Interesting discussion re: cloud-sensor communications ... will have to look into that aspect of these design choices ...

I'll try to add some extra LEDs to the above design next week ...

The Cree XLamps are supercool -- are you planning on using them in your grow-light setup?

Cheers.





