---
node: Thermal flashlight design (+ thermal fishing bob, too?)
author: ajawitz
created_at: 2014-02-03 18:29:31 +0000
timestamp: 1391452171
nid: 9981
cid: 8147
uid: 294634
---



[ajawitz](../profile/ajawitz) replying to: [Thermal flashlight design (+ thermal fishing bob, too?)](../notes/donblair/01-26-2014/thermal-flashlight-design-thermal-fishing-bob-too)

----
RE- Through hole kits-
Interestingly enough...  It appears we're not the only one's talking about an ATmega32u4-based breakout as this Kickstarter campaign is currently in progress- https://www.kickstarter.com/projects/myownduino/the-lil-nardo
  
RE-Cree XLamps- I just got my Visualight w/LED module and I can confirm its bright enough to hurt your eyes if you're not careful!  Amazing how they get so much light out of such a tiny little diode!  I now have little doubt that a string of XLamps, preferably mounted onto a flexible strip will provide enough light for an indoor plant set-up!  As for the specifics of wiring them up, and how to program the Blue/Red outputs for each specific plants' needs, I'm working on a research note over on http://farmhack.net/wiki/open-source-pink-gardening-using-redblue-leds-indoor-plant-growth.

RE- Cloud-sensor comms...  I don't want to get too carried away, but this issue may deserve its on research note on this forum as it is clearly one with enormous potential.  There's a fellow I met at the Open Source Hardware Conference with an interesting system he calls "APITRONICS" (http://apitronics.com/) and I think he's on www.farmhack.net as well.  His system uses a Beaglebone Black as a base station with the wireless nodes connected via XBees.  This would've been almost exactly the same approach I would've taken until recently.  The major game changer in my view is the new Arduino Yun, which merges a 32u4 with an Atheros chip running a modified version of Linux-OpenWRT.  The same chip is used on the TP-Link WL703n travel router, prized by hackers as a cheap means of adding wifi to an arduino when flashed with OpenWRT.  The Yun merges the router and the 32u4 on one board while communicating through a new "Bridge" library.  

My idea is to find a way to use the same Atheros chip to control a network of multiple 32u4s OR to enable 1 or 2 Leonardos to perform multiple tasks simultaneously.  As the Yun  has a Leonardo chip embedded already, one would have to separate the components again, while retaining the "Bridge" library protocol.  The TP-Link routers are obviously not designed for such a purpose, and lack sufficient memory to handle such tasks.  There is a standalone development kit with the Atheros chip called "Dragino" (http://www.dragino.com/) that even supports the Arduino Yun firmware.  So this will be my starting point for the time being.  Unfortunately, the Dragino isn't widely available so I could see great potential for a dedicated Atheros AR9331/OpenWRT breakout that is specifically optimized for the recent crop of dedicated 32u4-based sensors (e.g the Visualight, the LeoPhi, LeoEC, "lil nardo")...  Namely, it would require multiple USB/serial I/O ports and the capability of working as an XBee base-station with minimal configuration.
 