---
node: Red Filter Rising
author: cfastie
created_at: 2014-02-04 16:57:06 +0000
timestamp: 1391533026
nid: 9769
cid: 8152
uid: 554
---



[cfastie](../profile/cfastie) replying to: [Red Filter Rising](../notes/cfastie/11-12-2013/red-filter-rising)

----
Tbtouaki,

It sounds like you have a full spectrum camera, one that has the IR blocking filter removed and nothing replacing it. By placing a filter in front of the lens, you can get various proportions of visible and NIR in each of the camera's channels. Which filters do you have? If you have the equivalent of a Wratten 87, then all three channels will be pure NIR because no visible light can pass. This is the best way to get both a pure NIR channel and get a pure visible channel (from the unmodified camera), but you have to rectify the two images (one from each camera).  If you have the equivalent of a Wratten 25A, then no visible light will reach the blue channel, very little in the green channel, and lots in the red channel. With this filter, I use the blue channel for NIR and the red channel for red to compute NDVI. The blue channel will record a very pure NIR image, and the red channel will be mostly visible but contaminated with substantial NIR.  If you have the equivalent of a Wratten 47B, Schott BG3, or Rosco [#2007](/n/2007), then little visible light will reach the red channel, so it can be used for NIR and the blue channel can be used for blue visible light when computing NDVI. But neither channel will be very pure.

People have taken the IR block filter out of several different Canon Powershots ([some here](http://publiclab.org/wiki/infragram-convertible-cameras)). I have done some testing with the Canon [A2200](http://publiclab.org/tag/a2200) and the [A810](http://publiclab.org/tag/a810).