---
cid: 816
node: [Registering and processing photos acquired from two cameras](../notes/nedhorning/5-31-2012/registering-and-processing-photos-acquired-two-cameras)
nid: 2279
created_at: 2012-06-01 01:26:03 +0000
timestamp: 1338513963
uid: 554
author: [cfastie](../profile/cfastie)
---

This is a huge advance over the process I have been using.  It is possible to manually register two photos (NIR and visible) in Photoshop ([as Jeff explains in a YouTube video]( http://publiclaboratory.org/notes/warren/10-25-2011/video-tutorial-creating-infrared-composites-aerial-wetlands-imagery)) and then manually do the calculations in GIMP ([as Jeff explains in another video]( http://publiclaboratory.org/notes/warren/10-27-2011/video-tutorial-creating-false-color-ndvi-aerial-wetlands-imagery).)  That was untenable for large numbers of images. Ned’s macro requires only that you have the [free program Fiji]( http://fiji.sc/wiki/index.php/Fiji) installed, and have your near-infrared and visible photo pairs in tiff format.  It could also be made to work on jpeg photos, but Ned’s goal was to produce real NDVI values for each pixel. Tiff images avoid the jpeg blurring and probably register with one another better than jpegs, especially when one is taken with a NIR camera and the other a normal camera. Avoiding the jpeg blurring also makes the pixel-level NDVI values more representative of what was actually at that micro-location in the scene. To completely avoid jpeg, photos must be captured in camera RAW or DNG format and then converted to Tiff. 

Ned’s macro is also intended for pairs of NIR and visible photos that are almost entirely overlapping.  If they are not taken by two similar cameras that are close together and pointing in the same direction, the registration can be poor and the resulting NDVI or NRG values might not be computed with data from the same location (e.g., the same leaf).  The resulting NDVI or NRG images could look impressive, but might not be interpretable as scientific results. The current macro might not work very well for images that only partially overlap.  That is why we have been working on ways to trigger two cameras on a kite or balloon rig at exactly the same instant.

I hope Ned starts a thread at GitHub for this macro development so more people can test it and maybe contribute to the coding. I keep thinking of new things to have the macro do and I think Ned is trying to avoid me now.

Sara, I’m glad you like my backyard;]  The big tree is an eastern white pine that lost its right-hand trunk a couple of years ago.  The other trunk is still quite healthy, but not reflecting as much NIR as the surrounding birchs, maples, basswoods and oaks.


[cfastie](../profile/cfastie) replying to: [Registering and processing photos acquired from two cameras](../notes/nedhorning/5-31-2012/registering-and-processing-photos-acquired-two-cameras)

