---
node: 3D model in MeshLab
author: dorncox
created_at: 2012-06-01 03:03:25 +0000
timestamp: 1338519805
nid: 2275
cid: 817
uid: 1205
---



[dorncox](../profile/dorncox) replying to: [3D model in MeshLab](../notes/cfastie/5-31-2012/3d-model-meshlab)

----
Thank you Jeff for pointing me to this thread.  I think Chris represented the on the ground data collection well. I am really excited to have the opportunity to gather this new richer data set I never anticipated having access to, and joining this community! I am thrilled that this FarmHack.net/public Labs collaboration happened so soon and so smoothly.  

We will be cutting, sorting and drying samples from each plot in the next week or so.   With that data we could potentially do some color and volume calibrations. One nice thing is that we do have known plot sizes which are clearly visible (8x16) and the bottom of the mowed pathways should identify the ground level - but as Cris said, even in the higher res version there is a bit of noise. 

However, it seems that a percent cover calculation of vetch would be potential low hanging fruit because the data would be relative rather than absolute and the color differentiation should be fairly clear and does not depend on the 3D rendering.   

One of the great limiting factors for doing more on-farm trials is the labor involved in data collection.  If we can figure out a method for remote data collection and basic automated processing, it would open up a lot of potential for consistent localized, applied and producer driven research.  I have shared this concept with several agricultural professors at UNH and they are very excited to follow up on the potential for invasive plant species monitoring and documenting weed pressure in plots.  The folks at Cornell are interested in the NDVI for their adaptive nitrogen field trials.    

I look forward to the conversation.  