---
cid: 8201
node: [Impact white balance & stretching on NDVI](../notes/radialmind/02-09-2014/impact-white-balance-stretching-on-ndvi)
nid: 10022
created_at: 2014-02-09 15:28:24 +0000
timestamp: 1391959704
uid: 170347
author: [radialmind](../profile/radialmind)
---

I'm by no means an expert and my results here should be considered empirical and amateur. If the ratio of the amount of radiation between visible and NIR is not known, then it's extremely difficult to figure out what to do to produce a proper NDVI image. The NDVI is based on this ratio, so that's really the challenge. If the ratio is correct, then the rest just impacts the resolution of the image.

The problem with white balance really is that it needs to represent the "midpoint" of radiation intensity for both visible and NIR light. The white balance affects this the most, because it determines how radiation energy is distributed amongst the R,G,B channels.

What would be a really cool exercise is to see if the camera itself can be exploited to figure out what the calibration color for white balance should look like on a given day. One idea and theory I'm playing with is to use auto white balance from the camera. It could work as follows:
- Get an 18% grey card (or possibly better yet, a white sheet of paper with 18% printed on it). 
- Take a picture with AWB outside in the conditions you want the photographs to be taken
- The WB will be all wrong, but is likely representative for how the CCD captures the current radiation situation. Then print this color out as truthful as possible on a very white sheet paper.
- Then immediately calibrate the WB of the camera outside on that sheet of paper instead.
- Take pictures and see what NDVI results do.

If that works, then we can take pictures with a specific camera in many different conditions (cloudy, sunny, etc) and even use different calibration cards for different weather situations. Unfortunately I don't have a grey card or printer available here. Actual NIR does differ a little bit for a given day, but in this calibration that would only change the colors that are applied, not its variation that much.


[radialmind](../profile/radialmind) replying to: [Impact white balance & stretching on NDVI](../notes/radialmind/02-09-2014/impact-white-balance-stretching-on-ndvi)

