---
cid: 8211
node: [Impact white balance & stretching on NDVI](../notes/radialmind/02-09-2014/impact-white-balance-stretching-on-ndvi)
nid: 10022
created_at: 2014-02-10 19:51:43 +0000
timestamp: 1392061903
uid: 170347
author: [radialmind](../profile/radialmind)
---

Hi Chris,

I keep on experimenting here. I got to see the effects of a grey card in sunlight with AWB. I got a nice lila, poison candy picture from that (not red though, not sure if that means anything). I played around a lot with different white balance settings (always turning off stretching for visible light to prevent shadows), but I don't get pictures with a lot of contrast. The results however don't look very wrong.

An interesting observation is that when the white balance is configured by the lila image on a computer monitor, I'm getting a very blue image and extreme contrasts, but unfortunately also a lot of correlation with shadows. I think that's because monitors don't emit any IR at all, so you'd get a blue channel that's very easily saturated when exposed to sunlight.

I did manage to get the nicest image so far, which is done by calibrating on the red ipad cover in my bathroom with diffuse light through a window and the door shut. So I expect a relatively low amount of NIR to reach the sensor in those conditions. The pictures weren't as blue as with the monitor method, but still bluer than calibrating in cloud cover conditions. So on CMOS it seems that the amount of NIR blows visible light out of the water quite easily. 

Since both bands accumulate NIR, I'm also doubting the calculations at this point. Not sure if the photo monitoring plugin subtracts a certain value from R, because that would also have accumulated some NIR light? 

[radialmind](../profile/radialmind) replying to: [Impact white balance & stretching on NDVI](../notes/radialmind/02-09-2014/impact-white-balance-stretching-on-ndvi)

