---
cid: 828
node: [Flew iPhone/CHDK robust prototype, 2 cameras triggering](../notes/patcoyle/5-27-2012/prototype-running-2-cameras-triggering-iphonechdk)
nid: 2220
created_at: 2012-06-02 15:04:32 +0000
timestamp: 1338649472
uid: 554
author: [cfastie](../profile/cfastie)
---

Pat, here are some thoughts on two issues:

<strong>A camera stops recording during a flight:</strong>  I have had similar experiences, on three or more flights, of a Canon Powershot ceasing to capture photos.  When the camera was recovered, the lens remained extended, but the LCD screen was off as if the camera had gone to sleep but not powered down.  In all cases, I had been operating the camera by radio control via USB and CHDK.  My hypothesis is that I tried to trigger the camera too quickly, before it was finished processing the previous image. Sometimes this causes the signal to be ignored, but it might sometimes lock up the camera. Switching to a timer with a generous interval between photos seemed to solve the problem.  Generally, two or three seconds should be sufficient to save a jpg photo on an SDHC card.  When I was capturing 15MB RAW files plus jpegs, I allowed eight seconds between pulses. For just jpegs, keeping the interval at a minimum of four or five seconds might be wise.

Radio control of the shutter should also work, but unintentionally sending a signal too soon might lock up the camera.  If this is what is happening, it is a critical weak point during a flight because there is no way to know that the camera is no longer capturing.

<strong>Over exposed photos:</strong>  With more information about three things it should be possible to troubleshoot this problem. 
1)	<em>Camera settings</em>.  Program mode or Auto?  Auto ISO or ISO set to xxx?  Are both cameras the same?
2)	<em>CHDK settings</em>.  Take a photo of the LCD screen for the CHDK screen at “Extra Photo Operations.”  Are both cameras the same?
3)	<em>Exif data</em>.  Were the ISO, shutter speed, and f/stop the same for all photos?  If not, how did they vary?  Is this pattern the same for both cameras?

[cfastie](../profile/cfastie) replying to: [Flew iPhone/CHDK robust prototype, 2 cameras triggering](../notes/patcoyle/5-27-2012/prototype-running-2-cameras-triggering-iphonechdk)

