---
node: NDVI 720nm, 850nm filter two camera setup result.
author: cfastie
created_at: 2014-02-18 15:12:11 +0000
timestamp: 1392736331
nid: 10043
cid: 8289
uid: 554
---



[cfastie](../profile/cfastie) replying to: [NDVI 720nm, 850nm filter two camera setup result.](../notes/gpenzo/02-16-2014/ndvi-720nm-850nm-filter-two-camera-setup-result)

----
Rita,  
If you are using two cameras, one unmodified and one to capture an NIR image, the best filter to use in the NIR camera is one that blocks all visible light, like the Wratten 87 or your 720 nm IR filter. With the factory IR block filter replaced with a Wratten 87, all three channels in that camera will record only pure NIR light. Any of the three channels will make good pure NIR images. One of the channels might be brighter than the others because that color Bayer filter is passing more NIR. That is probably the one to use (unless it is overexposed).  

The Wratten 25A and the blue filters (Rosco 2007, 2008, 74, BG3, Wratten 47B) should replace the IR block filter only if your goal is to compute NDVI from a single camera. However, the Wratten 25A will produce a pure NIR channel (blue), so taking pairs of photos with an unmodified camera and a Wratten 25A NIR camera will allow pretty much the same NDVI result as using an unmodified camera and a pure NIR camera like with Wratten 87. You will have to use the blue channel from the Wratten 25A camera for NIR, and you will have a second channel with red visible light (red channel), although the one from the unmodified camera will not be contaminated with NIR. If the unmodified camera malfunctions, the photos from the Wratten 25A camera, by themselves, can be used to compute a good facsimile of NDVI. This is not true with a pure NIR camera.  

The Wratten 25A filter will give you a purer NIR channel (blue) than a blue filter (with which the red channel will be mostly NIR but with some red).  NDVI is traditionally computed using a red band for visible light, and that's what the Wratten 25A allows. Using the red channel for visible light avoids the greater scattering of blue light, so photos of very distant subjects can be less hazy with the Wratten 25A. Both filter choices will result is a visible light channel that has some NIR in it. The only way to avoid that is to use two cameras.  

It doesn't matter whether the filter is placed inside the camera or in front of the lens. Only a small piece of filter is required inside the lens, and it is protected. Placing the filter in front of the lens requires a larger piece, it can get scratched, and it is not protected from direct rays of sunlight (it might need a lens hood to prevent glare, although this is not relevant if all photos are vertical mapping photos). But if the filter is on the outside, you can swap filters or use the camera without a filter (e.g., for IR spectroscopy). Placing any gel, film, or plastic filter inside the camera will risk degrading the image quality by altering the optical path. But removing the IR block filter without replacing it with something can have similar effects. Some Powershots have adapters that allow using standard, round, screw-on, glass filters. These will allow good image sharpness, and some common filters are not expensive. Most small Powershots do not allow this.
Chris