---
node: Grand Isle Sand Spit 2 Jan 2014
author: eustatic
created_at: 2014-02-22 03:40:56 +0000
timestamp: 1393040456
nid: 9925
cid: 8315
uid: 379
---



[eustatic](../profile/eustatic) replying to: [Grand Isle Sand Spit 2 Jan 2014](../notes/eustatic/01-06-2014/grand-isle-sand-spit-2-jan-2014)

----
markdown is the "markup" language that determines how the text is displayed on the screen.  Here, i will attempt to revert to HTML, a different markup language, and format things how you desired, using the  "br" tag

I offer a few comments: <br><br>
- Scott put together a nice map from challenging conditions <br><br>
- always have everything in order before going out into the field. I did not. <br><br>
- swivel controversy: the question is, can/does a swivel between kite and string reduce spinning or other erratic kite movements? It is my understanding that a swivel facilitates spinning. At a very minimum, what a swivel does is allow something on one side of it to spin freely without affecting what is on the other side of it. Regardless, I still think it is a good idea to put a swivel on the kite line. <br><br>
- one camera perished that day (the kite couldn't resist taking a swim). may the electronics gods guide him to a nice spot in a landfill. <br><br>
- I almost forgot: BIG lesson learned: it is probably never a bad idea to first put your kite or balloon up in the air before attaching the rig + camera. I will try to remember this in the future. <br><br>
- the area mapped, at the northeast end of Grand Isle, is a very dynamic environment and could serve as a site for repeated mapping to show great or rapid change over time.