---
node: Automatic Spectrometer Calibration and Offline SWB - GSoC 2014 Proposal
author: cfastie
created_at: 2014-03-05 02:51:04 +0000
timestamp: 1393987864
nid: 10103
cid: 8408
uid: 554
---



[cfastie](../profile/cfastie) replying to: [Automatic Spectrometer Calibration and Offline SWB - GSoC 2014 Proposal](../notes/Sreyanth/03-04-2014/automatic-spectrometer-calibration-and-offline-swb-gsoc-2014-proposal)

----
Hi Sreyanth,

I really like the idea of combining information from the intensity graph of a spectrum with information about which **colors** the peaks are in order to recognize spectra. That should have great power to identify CFL spectra. If that procedure works well, it might be possible to include a few other types of common emission spectra, like mercury and neon. In fact, the two peaks now used to calibrate CFL spectra are both peaks of mercury, so it might be important to distinguish pure mercury from a CFL which also has distinct peaks from terbium and europium. If your algorithm detects those two mercury peaks, it could look for the big red europium peak at 611 nm to confirm that it is a CFL. In fact, calibration will be much stronger using that red peak (611 nm) and the blue peak (436 nm) because they are farther apart than the two mercury peaks used by default at Spectral Workbench. Then you will have to decide, if you have identified three peaks, whether to use all three in your calibration. This might require non-linear calibration, but most spectrometers probably need that, and its just math, right? Once you have pinned down three peaks in a putative CFL spectrum, you could even look for more and really know how much massaging each spectrum required to calibrate it. Then you could report to the user "Congratulations, this spectrum required only a second order polynomial to achieve excellent calibration." And then maybe "As long as you don't touch your spectrometer, subsequent spectra will be spot on!"

Chris