---
cid: 8413
node: [Automatic Spectrometer Calibration and Offline SWB - GSoC 2014 Proposal](../notes/Sreyanth/03-04-2014/automatic-spectrometer-calibration-and-offline-swb-gsoc-2014-proposal)
nid: 10103
created_at: 2014-03-05 14:11:56 +0000
timestamp: 1394028716
uid: 554
author: [cfastie](../profile/cfastie)
---

Sreyanth,

I don't know the issues associated with using SWB offline. I always work offline -- taking still photos of spectra and later uploading them to SWB. So my workflow might be different from most.

I think you noted elsewhere a problem with using color to identify spectra. In many spectra, the highest peaks are overexposed in at least one color channel.  So the channel that primarily determines which color the peak is has only the value 255 for a range of wavelengths and provides poor information about the location of the peak. You still know the general color of the peak (even though it might look white) because you know which channel is overexposed, but you have to determine the location of the peak from another channel that is not overexposed. So this is doable, but tedious. When an algorithm has worked through this process, you know a lot about the quality of the spectral image. It might be good to report this to the user and in some cases maybe encourage a repeat attempt with better exposure. Maybe each spectrum could be given a quality grade based on exposure and dynamic range to educate people about what makes more useful spectral data.

Chris

[cfastie](../profile/cfastie) replying to: [Automatic Spectrometer Calibration and Offline SWB - GSoC 2014 Proposal](../notes/Sreyanth/03-04-2014/automatic-spectrometer-calibration-and-offline-swb-gsoc-2014-proposal)

