---
cid: 8415
node: [Automatic Spectrometer Calibration and Offline SWB - GSoC 2014 Proposal](../notes/Sreyanth/03-04-2014/automatic-spectrometer-calibration-and-offline-swb-gsoc-2014-proposal)
nid: 10103
created_at: 2014-03-05 16:10:48 +0000
timestamp: 1394035848
uid: 554
author: [cfastie](../profile/cfastie)
---

It is easy to find CFL spectra that are overexposed. A quick survey suggests that maybe > 3/4 of the CFL spectra at SWB have at least one peak with the primary channel flooded (select More_Tools/Toggle RGB).  This is not surprising because the diffraction pattern of CFL has very bright peaks with black areas between, so it takes a good camera with high dynamic range and very careful exposure to avoid overexposure while still capturing the fainter peaks.  So this will be a persistent problem, but in most cases a secondary channel has good peak information.

It might be possible to analyze a spectral image of CFL and determine how many bright peaks and faint peaks have acceptable information. If three or four of the brightest peaks and four or five of the fainter peaks can be discerned, the spectrum might deserve a high grade. Maybe just reporting how many of the 16 major CFL peaks are recognizable will be a good metric.

The diffraction pattern produced by the Public Lab spectrometers is very detailed and contains a lot of information. The obstacle is making a good photographic image of that pattern. The beauty of the spectral patterns captured me, and I just use a Canon Powershot to take photos of them. This allows higher resolution but most importantly greater dynamic range and easier control of exposure. Even so, all of my CFL spectra have overexposed channels. 

[cfastie](../profile/cfastie) replying to: [Automatic Spectrometer Calibration and Offline SWB - GSoC 2014 Proposal](../notes/Sreyanth/03-04-2014/automatic-spectrometer-calibration-and-offline-swb-gsoc-2014-proposal)

