---
node: [GSOC PROPOSAL DRAFT] MapKnitter Enhancements.
author: cfastie
created_at: 2014-03-08 15:52:32 +0000
timestamp: 1394293952
nid: 10138
cid: 8445
uid: 554
---



[cfastie](../profile/cfastie) replying to: [[GSOC PROPOSAL DRAFT] MapKnitter Enhancements.](../notes/xvidun/03-07-2014/gsoc-proposal-draft-mapknitter-enhancements)

----
Vidhun,  
This looks impressive. The interface for uploading photos is a great place to start improving MapKnitter. The current system requires that photos be uploaded one at a time with a subsequent wait of 20 to 60 seconds during which the user can not interact with the map in progress. The first approach to improving this might be to allow upload of five or ten photos at a time so all the waiting is done in advance. Either "select files" or "drag and drop" would work fine. Drag and drop is ubiquitous so probably easy to implement. The next issue is what to do with the photos after they are uploaded. Should they be displayed on top of one another in the middle of the map? Should they be aligned in a row off to the side? Should they be displayed as icons, any one of which can be opened and displayed as the user needs them?  

EXIF location data in the photos could be used to place them on the map, but this has shortcomings: 

1. Very few photos ever uploaded to MapKnitter have GPS data in the EXIF header. 
2.  GPS data will come from the camera in the air and not necessarily account for tilt and subsequent displacement of the photo's location on the ground. This location could be calculated, but that requires data about camera altitude, orientation, tilt, and local topography. GPS data on altitude is never very good, not all GPS systems record orientation and tilt, and modeling ground topography is probably beyond the scope of this project.
3. If the photos are simply placed at the lat long coordinates of the camera, they should be rotated properly, using orientation data (NSEW, which is much rarer than lat long data). If they are not rotated properly, the advantage to the user might be minimal.
4. Most maps at MapKnitter are just 5 to 15 photos of a relatively small area, taken by a camera that moved horizontally through an even smaller area. So automatically geolocating the photos for most MapKnitter maps will result in all the photos being placed in pretty much the same place anyway. It is not clear that this would be much help to the user.
5. In some cases of homogeneous ground surface when there are hundreds of photos, automatically placing the photos can be useful. But in most cases it is obvious and easy to rotate a photo into the correct orientation and place it. This is one of the fun parts of MapKnitting. 

Assuming a set of photos had good lat, long, tilt, orientation, and altitude data, and the ground underneath was perfectly flat, is it a reasonable summer project to create from scratch a system to place the photos on a map? If such a system was created, would it be easy to also stretch the photo to account for camera tilt?   

Some questions for the MapKnitter community at large:

- Do such systems already exist?
- Do your aerial photos include lat, long, altitude, tilt, and orientation?
- Would you invest in the required equipment to record these data if it was used by MapKnitter?
- Are there other improvements to MapKnitter that would be more useful to typical users?

Chris





