---
node: [GSOC PROPOSAL DRAFT] MapKnitter Enhancements.
author: warren
created_at: 2014-03-11 16:04:15 +0000
timestamp: 1394553855
nid: 10138
cid: 8463
uid: 1
---



[warren](../profile/warren) replying to: [[GSOC PROPOSAL DRAFT] MapKnitter Enhancements.](../notes/xvidun/03-07-2014/gsoc-proposal-draft-mapknitter-enhancements)

----
Hi! just a few thoughts to add:

* For this project, you may begin to overlap with this other GSoC proposal a bit -- not the same code or functions, but you'll have to coordinate: http://publiclab.org/notes/anishshah101/03-08-2014/gsoc-2014-proposal-porting-imagedistortion-class-in-the-mapknitter-interface-to-leaflet-js
* I think the best way to approach this coordination may be to skip making separate "maps" for now, and just focus on people uploading images one by one. 
  * So, the map would just show *all* images by that user, or (with a toggle to change this) all recent images by this user, or all images from all users for this region. 
  * Exporting a map would involve dragging to select a group of images which you wish to export, rather than having lots of separate named maps
  * These last few distinctions may not be that important for your project
* the upload interface, once you're done uploading an image, would drop you back into the map. If it's simple enough, you could put it on both the front page of the website (so people can begin making a map really quickly) and within the map editor interface. But the editor will be changing if the above project by Anish goes forward, so keep your code clean and portable.
* the upload interface could be modeled on http://publiclab.org/post
* finally, re: having fun, the auto-placement will basically never be good enough to make _some_ manual adjustment unnecessary. 

Great start to your proposal! 