---
node: Automatic Spectrometer Calibration and Offline SWB - GSoC 2014 Proposal
author: stoft
created_at: 2014-03-13 20:22:04 +0000
timestamp: 1394742124
nid: 10103
cid: 8496
uid: 54025
---



[stoft](../profile/stoft) replying to: [Automatic Spectrometer Calibration and Offline SWB - GSoC 2014 Proposal](../notes/Sreyanth/03-04-2014/automatic-spectrometer-calibration-and-offline-swb-gsoc-2014-proposal)

----
Jeff, Specific to data/analysis, post-processing can only as good as the source data. This is why I'm focused on first getting that data; other things can, and should, follow. It is important to not throw away image data; at least not until the most accurate spectral response curve has been extracted.

Frequency calibration is based on identifying peaks, so if those peaks are skewed because of RGB channel clipping the calibration will be affected. Remember also that not all peaks are simple, symmetrical, smooth shapes so clipping will shift the peak center, dependent on the shape of the peak -- clipping distorts this.

True, some images have curves which are a result of the diffraction grating / slit. However, that can easily be detected -- IF you look at the entire 'band' of data. However, where there is some curvature, it will be uniform (the physical area of the grating is very small) so a first-order approximation should not be difficult to generate; and used to compensate the image data.

The effect on the final spectral curve is primarily on the sensitivity curve -- which is primarily an intensity factor, not a frequency effect. ie. variability in RGB detection sensitivity won't have much impact on frequency cal -- but RGB clipping will.

So, whether on-line or off-line, if the entire spectral band image area is used to extract the final spectral response, you will go a long way toward making posted response data much more independent of device / user / setup. It is always important to put the source data handling as far toward the front-end as possible for the best SNR and minimize error propagation.

I used a random sample 640x480 full-image spectrum from the original PLab webcam but admittedly, it was my setup and my own slit. If you want to point to or send me an RGB clipped, curved full-image spectrum which you think is a good test case, I'll tweak my algorithm and post the results to my HDR2 research note.

Cheers,
Dave
