---
cid: 8503
node: [Cheap single-camera system for NDVI with Professional precision](../notes/Albertazzi/03-14-2014/cheap-single-camera-system-for-ndvi-with-professional-precision)
nid: 10180
created_at: 2014-03-14 14:31:41 +0000
timestamp: 1394807501
uid: 554
author: [cfastie](../profile/cfastie)
---

There is not much easily accessible information in that paper, but maybe what they did is this:

They removed the IR blocking filter from a camera, and put filter in front of lens that blocked all wavelengths shorter that 600 nm -- like a Wratten 25A. [Several of us have done the same thing.](http://publiclab.org/tag/wratten25a) So the camera now sees only red and near infrared, not blue or green. But the blue and green channels of the camera are sensitive to some red and NIR, so all three channels have a mixture of wavelengths between 600 and about 1000 nm. Each channel has a different mixture, and they somehow use that difference to compute the proportion of red to NIR. Of course, the red channel will be dominated by red light with some NIR, and the blue channel will be dominated with NIR with almost no red (the blue Bayer filter blocks most red). We have been using those two channels without mathematical modification to represent red and NIR, respectively, and computing NDVI. They apparently can do a little better using math, especially to get a better estimate of red (which is mixed with NIR in the red channel).  But it is not clear from the paper how much better, or exactly how to get the coefficients they present for their camera (equations 4 and 5). Maybe someone can get more out of that paper than I could.  

Chris

[cfastie](../profile/cfastie) replying to: [Cheap single-camera system for NDVI with Professional precision](../notes/Albertazzi/03-14-2014/cheap-single-camera-system-for-ndvi-with-professional-precision)

