---
cid: 8505
node: [Cheap single-camera system for NDVI with Professional precision](../notes/Albertazzi/03-14-2014/cheap-single-camera-system-for-ndvi-with-professional-precision)
nid: 10180
created_at: 2014-03-14 15:43:05 +0000
timestamp: 1394811785
uid: 421089
author: [Albertazzi](../profile/Albertazzi)
---

Hi Chris,
here:
http://hal.archives-ouvertes.fr/docs/00/64/84/39/PDF/mo2011-pub00034131.pdf

they explain very well how they take all the data. They do some math to combine the informations they have in all the 3 channels to reconstruct perfectly the NIR and R channel.
With a 600nm filter (they chose that wavelenght because it leads to better results, according to a formula that minimize the distance between "real" and "reconstructed" NIR and R channel, equation 10 in the second paper) they get:

B = NIR,
G = NIR,
R = R + NIR,

What everybody here use to do (me too!) is to use those channels to compute NDVI, but in this way we don't take into account the different sensitivities of the channels to each wavelenght, and we accept the R channel to be contaminated with NIR light.
We therefore overstimate the R channel in an unknown proportion adding NIR light to it, and use the B channel as pure NIR, but we don't know what "quantity" this channel is taking of the real NIR information.

By using the procedure indicated in the 2 papers, they more or less perfectly reconstruct both channels, as can be seen in FIG. 3 on the right in the first paper: they get the same exact values of a Hyspex VNIR-1600 camera.
NDVI is then computed ad a professional multispectral camera. The same procedure can be done with all the cameras we normally use, but it needs some specific tools (like a spectography) which I don't have and don't know how to use...
It would be nice to follow this procedure, since it would lead to perfect results even with compact cameras, without having the doubt on "how much reliable" our collected data are!
What do you guys think?

Alberto

[Albertazzi](../profile/Albertazzi) replying to: [Cheap single-camera system for NDVI with Professional precision](../notes/Albertazzi/03-14-2014/cheap-single-camera-system-for-ndvi-with-professional-precision)

