---
node: GSoC Proposal SpectralWorkbench
author: cfastie
created_at: 2014-03-15 02:10:04 +0000
timestamp: 1394849404
nid: 10160
cid: 8520
uid: 554
---



[cfastie](../profile/cfastie) replying to: [GSoC Proposal SpectralWorkbench](../notes/PascalW/03-11-2014/gsoc-proposal-spectralworkbench)

----
Would it work to have a constant width slit with an integrated neutral density gradient from 100% transmission at one end to something less than that at the other end? Varying slit width is the wrong way to vary intensity because it changes resolution. If the slits printed on clear film work, it should be possible to print a transmission gradient along the slit. The system then has to be set up so that the camera captures an image of the entire length of the slit. Optically it might work better to have a separate transmission gradient filter near the grating, but I don't know which position would work better (e.g., which side of the grating). It is not going to help resolution to have the light passing through all those extra films, but it might work. It seems wrong to me to make the entrance slit out of anything but two pieces of metal with nothing but air between them, but I guess I am just old fashioned.

With the desktop spectrometer, I think the user presses a key or clicks to capture a spectrum from the video stream. If the webcam can be controlled from the PC, the user could then press a key to change exposure and capture another image, then repeat for a third bracketed image. So it would not be fully automated, but still easy for the user.