---
node: Automatic Spectrometer Calibration and Offline SWB - GSoC 2014 Proposal
author: stoft
created_at: 2014-03-16 22:03:12 +0000
timestamp: 1395007392
nid: 10103
cid: 8527
uid: 54025
---



[stoft](../profile/stoft) replying to: [Automatic Spectrometer Calibration and Offline SWB - GSoC 2014 Proposal](../notes/Sreyanth/03-04-2014/automatic-spectrometer-calibration-and-offline-swb-gsoc-2014-proposal)

----
Sreyanth, Jeff,

I may not be up on the latest strategy for the code projects, but I'm still sensing that some concepts are diffuse. Performing frequency calibration can only be done AFTER there is a quality spectral response from the RGB data. Therefore, extraction of this response is part of the front-end. This also help the freq cal process since it can assume there is a valid response to observe -- and neither need nor want to look back at RGB data. Having a quality spectral response, then allows easier searching for peaks to decide if it might be CFL (..or other types could be added later).

I think that any off-line user would expect automatic RGB to spectral response and freq cal because anything less is near useless for off-line work. This also encourages users to experiment and only upload when they have something they think is useful and tested enough to share -- which reduces the amount of low-quality or useless spectra for sorting.

This then suggests that the algorithms need to implement the same concepts on and off line -- though the coding can be different. However, it seems likely that if both are browser based, then they should be quite similar.  I'd suggest that this summer's work might therefore consist of 4 elements:

1) Modularize SWB for both on and off line use with common modules as possible,

2) re-write the front-end to auto-locate the spectral band, extract the full-band RGB, correct for curvature, HDR to extract data from clupped regions and produce a quality spectral response,

3) Using the results of [#2](/n/2), auto-recognize CFLs and auto-cal (linear),

4) Provide both on and off line use of the freq-cal data ( a device only needs one calibration so only one need be stored on/off line) and provide a way to upload calibrated spectra.

I'd guess that this could keep two motivated students very active and, if finished, would provide a huge step forward in usability and accessibility.

Cheers, Dave
