---
node: Mobius, stripped
author: cfastie
created_at: 2014-03-19 18:56:04 +0000
timestamp: 1395255364
nid: 9296
cid: 8546
uid: 554
---



[cfastie](../profile/cfastie) replying to: [Mobius, stripped](../notes/cfastie/09-06-2013/mobius-stripped)

----
More tests are definitely merited. 

First, I was assuming that Carl was using a Rosco blue filter, and my original conclusions were based on that. That's one thing to check.

Second, Your new images don't seem to add much new information. Carl's infrablue photo, from a camera with no IR block filter, shows very bright plant foliage in all three channels. That is almost certainly because there is lots of NIR in all three channels. So just about any image you make from that photo is going to show plants with bright foliage, and some non-foliage things that are not as bright. It looks like good discrimination between plant and non-plant, and it might be pretty good discrimination, but it is probably not any better than a pure NIR photo. There is much value in a pure NIR photo, but it is not NDVI. It is not even false color infrared, because that uses two visible light channels, which this camera apparently does not have even one of. 

A good area for further research is suggested by the histogram above showing that foliage in the blue channel is the brightest of the three channels. In an infrablue photo, the blue channel is supposed to be the one with mostly visible light. But that camera is apparently recording a LOT of NIR in the blue channel. Therefore, it might be that using a Wratten 25A filter instead of a blue filter would work better. A Wratten 25A filter allows zero blue or blue-green light to reach the sensor, so the only thing getting to the blue channel is NIR. The red channel will have a mix of red and NIR, and maybe have a high enough proportion of red to be usable as a VIS channel.  

Putting a Wratten 25A in a Mobius is certainly what I would do if I had one, and if there were any green plants within 200 miles of me.