---
node: Mobius, stripped
author: cfastie
created_at: 2014-03-19 23:48:49 +0000
timestamp: 1395272929
nid: 9296
cid: 8557
uid: 554
---



[cfastie](../profile/cfastie) replying to: [Mobius, stripped](../notes/cfastie/09-06-2013/mobius-stripped)

----
I see what you mean when you say that the difference between the blue and red channels is correlated with the presence of plants. Your monochrome image illustrates that. When the difference is big (brighter), those pixels are usually plants. And that suggests that the difference is at least related to the difference between the reflection of NIR and visible light. We know the difference between NIR and visible should correlate with plants (plants absorb visible but not NIR). On the other hand, if the difference between the R and B channels in Carl's infrablue photo were due mostly to NIR, i.e., channel B just happened to have more NIR than channel R did, then we might not expect the result you found that plants are associated with a greater B-R difference. Instead we might expect the greatest difference between channel B and channel R to be randomly associated with various things in the image. Do you think we can rule out that the difference between the R and B channels is due to channel B having more NIR than channel R? If we can't, it might be that since plants will reflect much more NIR than most other surfaces will, and that NIR ends up in both the R and B channels, the plant pixels will have the biggest values for both R and B and the difference between them is therefore likely to be bigger. Or maybe that's just the Bulleit talking.