---
cid: 8589
node: [Mobius, stripped](../notes/cfastie/09-06-2013/mobius-stripped)
nid: 9296
created_at: 2014-03-26 16:59:32 +0000
timestamp: 1395853172
uid: 554
author: [cfastie](../profile/cfastie)
---

To compute NDVI, you have to know the relative amount of light in a visible and an NIR band being reflected from plant leaves. The difference between the two bands (for each pixel) is the basis for NDVI. The system that records how bright each band is should not have completely independent methods of recording them. Generally there is more NIR than red reflected from leaves, but if one camera has a different filter or a different exposure setting, the value for red in one camera could be larger than the value for NIR in the other. NDVI from such a system would be meaningless.

If you want to subtract the R value determined by camera [#1](/n/1) (unmodified) from the R+NIR value determined by camera [#2](/n/2) (modified) in order to get a value for NIR, the R values from both cameras have to be equivalent. So if the IR block filter in camera [#1](/n/1) blocks some R, that value for R will be lower than the R value from camera [#2](/n/2) which has no IR block filter.

But the more important obstacle is point [#3](/n/3). How do you set the exposure on the two cameras so that the amount of R reaching the sensor is the same in each camera? There is an unknown amount of NIR in the R channel of the modified camera, so setting the exposure of the two cameras the same will always reduce the amount of R being recorded compared to the unmodified camera. How can you know how much this reduction is? 

This problem does not go away if you replace the IR block filter with a visible-blocking IR pass filter (passes only NIR). The standard protocol is to take well exposed photos of the same scene with each camera and use the R value from the unmodified camera as R and any channel from the IR modified camera as NIR. But the particular exposure of those two photos determines the relative brightness of the two channels of interest. Modifying the exposure settings in one camera will change the relative brightness of R and NIR and change the value of NDVI. 

In fact, it's hard to understand how any of these two-camera systems give such good NDVI results.


[cfastie](../profile/cfastie) replying to: [Mobius, stripped](../notes/cfastie/09-06-2013/mobius-stripped)

