---
node: [GSOC PROPOSAL DRAFT] MapKnitter Enhancements.
author: warren
created_at: 2014-04-01 21:57:38 +0000
timestamp: 1396389458
nid: 10138
cid: 8635
uid: 1
---



[warren](../profile/warren) replying to: [[GSOC PROPOSAL DRAFT] MapKnitter Enhancements.](../notes/xvidun/03-07-2014/gsoc-proposal-draft-mapknitter-enhancements)

----
>  how Anish's project will make changes to editor, apart from porting is there any visual level mods that would be made?

We've discussed his re-implementing the buttons and such in Bootstrap, which would be much simpler. Your work might intersect his if you contained your code to a Rails partial (read up on this... it's like a reusable template fragment) which could be included in the old version or Anish's new version of the editor. Or you could have faith that Anish will finish his work, and just focus on an image uploader/gallery/placement tool which instantiates a new in-editor image from a list of uploaded images (as you said) and hands off the relevant data to Anish's code for the user to begin manipulating. 

For the auto-placement, you could pass "suggested" placement along with the constructor to Anish's code to instantiate and display the image. 

> any possible reason that user would require for toggling auto-placement?

Perhaps at the moment you upload, it could have a checkbox (default checked) that says "attempt to auto-place". Or it could just try, and if it fails, it could briefly show an unobtrusive message that it couldn't find a match. If you right-click the image, or long-click it, maybe it could offer to try again.