---
cid: 8659
node: [GSoC Proposal SpectralWorkbench](../notes/PascalW/03-11-2014/gsoc-proposal-spectralworkbench)
nid: 10160
created_at: 2014-04-03 00:30:35 +0000
timestamp: 1396485035
uid: 54025
author: [stoft](../profile/stoft)
---

Depends on what you want to monitor. If the whole spectrum is dynamically changing, then maybe not because the relationship between clipped peaks and linear peaks and background does not necessarily remain a set of constant ratios (like it is with a fixed spectral band that is just optically attenuated (variable across the band) in some static way. If you wanted only to track a specific portion (like a peak of interest) then maybe the algorithm could be simplified (after the initial calculations) and need only work on 1/10th of the data. That said, if fixed-gradient attenuation becomes manageable, then the amount of data to process could drop significantly which then improves processing bandwidth.

I'm tinkering again with slit attenuators for the smartphone spectrometer now that I have one. The smartphone camera (w/o SWB) appear able, at times, to actually focus on the slit -- which is what it should do. This is an important feature for the proposed gsoc work -- and it's especially important that the focus, whatever the setting, not change.

BTW: SWB does not work with an S4 active android because it defaults to the front camera instead of the back and there does not appear to be a switch in the app to switch cameras.

Also important: What does the current SWB-mobile do in terms of setting exposure? This could be a very big deal in terms of getting usable data from the image. Preferably the exposure would be automatically adjusted by the app, but triggered (like a reset) by the user once the setup is stable.

Yes, that's true about the curves with the smart-phone version and large-area light source. Actually, I think this is where a modification to the slit (shorter and variable-attenuation) might be very helpful. Curvature can be corrected, but collecting more of the same data just to fix the curve is not useful. Accepting curved lines while gathering attenuation data is useful.

Cheers, Dave


[stoft](../profile/stoft) replying to: [GSoC Proposal SpectralWorkbench](../notes/PascalW/03-11-2014/gsoc-proposal-spectralworkbench)

