---
node: Mobius Action Cam Infragram tests
author: cfastie
created_at: 2014-04-10 16:15:35 +0000
timestamp: 1397146535
nid: 10291
cid: 8724
uid: 554
---



[cfastie](../profile/cfastie) replying to: [Mobius Action Cam Infragram tests](../notes/warren/04-10-2014/mobius-action-cam-infragram-tests)

----
It looks like you've done a good job matching the NDVI index from the two cameras. It's hard to evaluate the meaningfulness of the NDVI images because 1) there is no RGB photo so I don't know what is healthy green plant and what is not, and 2) the color gradient used is not displayed.

I don't know whether finding a way to display plant health information with the HSV color wheel can be translated into applying a standard look up table for colors. Will each NDVI image created use a slightly different arc of the color wheel? That would make it hard to compare images.

I don't think the zero threshold between non-plant and plant NDVI values is important. Without a rigorous calibration procedure, consumer cameras will never put the NDVI values on the correct absolute numbers, and never scale them correctly. So stretching and sliding the values will usually be part of the process (that's part of what the custom white balance is doing). The key is having a device that allows quantifying the difference between NIR and visible light with some usable dynamic range. I can't tell if you have that or not.

What is the order of operations for javascript? I though division happened before addition. If so, your formulas are not like NDVI. So addition must come first (this is why I have to use so many parentheses).