---
cid: 8761
node: [RIFFLE: Conductivity + Adhesive updates](../notes/donblair/04-14-2014/riffle-conductivity-adhesive-updates)
nid: 10308
created_at: 2014-04-14 19:21:17 +0000
timestamp: 1397503277
uid: 43651
author: [donblair](../profile/donblair)
---

Thanks, Mat!  

Great point re: the type of metal being used.  The earlier screws weren't stainless, I don't think, (I think Ben just found them lying about his apartment :)) and the stainless steel wire he used this morning was "316", i think -- which apparently is much better for these purposes.  Another cheap source of small bits of perhaps-appropriate metal we found on Ebay the other day: nose rings!  But looks like little screws will be easier to manage.  Hopefully this was the main issue.

Going forward, though -- I just came across some 'four electrode' designs, in which one energies two outer electrodes, but measures the potential difference across two inner electrodes -- a way of reducing electroplating / corrosion.  If better steel helps our measurements, but we still see corrosion over time, maybe this is an approach to consider ... ? 

Re: potting, we're using some advanced PDMS (I'll dig up the reference) material that requires initial mixing and then cures in the air.  To speed up the curing process (heavily affected by temperature, and Ben's heat was broken last week), we placed the caps in a toaster oven for a bit.  The bubbles we witnessed in some of them might. we're thinking, a) be because we didn't let the bubbles percolate out sufficiently before popping them in the over -- as per your suggestion -- and / or b) because we'd also used some standard silicone underneath and around the PDMS, and this might've created the bubbles.  

Nice info on the quick zig-zag pour, and GREAT info on the vibrating foot massager!  That's brilliant. Will look around for one ... 

Thanks!

[donblair](../profile/donblair) replying to: [RIFFLE: Conductivity + Adhesive updates](../notes/donblair/04-14-2014/riffle-conductivity-adhesive-updates)

