---
node: Measure coarse and fine air particulates with a DustDuino
author: donblair
created_at: 2014-04-21 20:54:15 +0000
timestamp: 1398113655
nid: 9818
cid: 8845
uid: 43651
---



[donblair](../profile/donblair) replying to: [Measure coarse and fine air particulates with a DustDuino](../notes/Schroyer/11-23-2013/measure-coarse-and-fine-air-particulates-with-a-dustduino)

----
Hi Folks!  Great comment thread here.  Just following up on Schroyer's lead:  the [github code](https://github.com/NodeJournalism/DustDuino/blob/master/DustDuino.ino) had a nice link, in a commented section, to a useful resourceful for code for the sensor, on the "How Much Snow" site's [Air Quality Sensing](https://github.com/NodeJournalism/DustDuino/blob/master/DustDuino.ino) page.  

Under the "Approach" section, they describe how the setup works.  If I understand it:  Willie's nice [teardown](http://publiclab.org/notes/Willie/04-01-2014/field-testing-the-shenyei-pm-sensor) of the Shenyei sensor shows that the sensor is [shining an IR LED into an air gap inside the device](https://i.publiclab.org/system/images/photos/000/003/471/original/ShinyeiPPD42NS_Insides_Labeled_600.jpg), and the IR LED is collimated by a "light baffle" so that it comes out in a nice straight beam.  There's also an IR photodiode that is looking at the same air gap -- using a focusing lens to enhance sensitivity, I guess, and gather light from the region of air that the IR LED beam is hitting.

The basic idea, I think, is that if there are no particles in the air, then IR photodiode won't see the collimated IR LED beam, which is directed off at an angle.  But if a particle floats in front of the LED beam, the LED light may scatter off the particle at an odd angle, and some of the time this scattered light will be directed towards the photodiode. (Either this is how it works, or the photodiode is *constantly* receiving a certain amount of IR light; when a particle floats in front of the photodiode, we no longer see this light, and this is our indication that there's a particle in the air gap.  But I think it's the former situation, because of the way in which the IR LED and the photodiode are angled.)

In any case, the IR photodiode puts out a voltage signal, which an Arduino can measure on a pin.  It seems that the photodiode is constructed such that if it sees any IR light above a certain threshold, it sends out a "high" value, which seems to be 5V in the case of this particular photodiode.  (This is the same functionality you'd want in e.g. an IR remote.) So you hook up an Arduino pin to the photodiode, and you write code that runs a 'timing loop' to measure what fraction of the time the photodiode pin is 'low' in a given sampling period (this is set by the "sampletime_ms" variable in the github code, which appears to be set to 30 seconds).  This gives you what they're calling the "low pulse occupancy time" (see the figure [here](http://www.howmuchsnow.com/arduino/airquality/grovedust/signal.jpg) -- and they've derived a formula for how to relate the "low pulse occupancy time" to the "particles per .01 cubic feet".  

So, that's all just to say -- in order to hook it up, you seem to need simply to be able to register a 'high' value on a digital pin -- easy peasy -- the rest of the code is just performing the 'low pulse occupancy time' calculation in the loop() function by setting a flag, starting and stopping a timer, etc -- pretty standard stuff.  It looks like the Shineyi photodiode might require 5V, so you might need your microcontroller to be running at 5V (or, if it isn't, to be able to power a 5V device, and to handle 5V signals via a level shifter); and you might also need the microcontroller to be running at a certain minimal clock speed -- since they're using an UNO, 16 MHz is apparently sufficient.  

Note:  it looks like there's some additional discussion of this technique (using this particular sensor, I think) in an Arduino forum post, [here](http://forum.arduino.cc/index.php/topic,17261.0.html). 

