---
node: Open-Lux REV-N: Full Circle
author: donblair
created_at: 2014-04-21 21:20:56 +0000
timestamp: 1398115256
nid: 10340
cid: 8846
uid: 43651
---



[donblair](../profile/donblair) replying to: [Open-Lux REV-N: Full Circle](../notes/donblair/04-21-2014/open-lux-rev-n-full-circle)

----
Yay!  Yeah, I puzzled a bit over the best geometry of 'emitters and receivers' to use on the device.  I have two photodiodes on the board, one of which does RGB, and the other does NIR.  It's hard to have them too close together and still get the wiring layout to work out easily.  But e.g. if trying to measure NDVI on a single leaf, I figure that we can illuminate the leaf with the IR LEDs (arranged in a Barnstar pattern, FTW!) and use Red from the NeoPixels.  We can then measure Red using the 'R' channel on the RGB sensor (center-left) and NIR using the 'NIR' channel on the LUXNIR sensor (center-right);  they won't both be receiving the same absolute amount of illumination, but since they're always a set distance apart, maybe we can just hope that that the difference in illumination will be relatively constant, so that we can assess (NIR-Red)/(NIR+Red) in a fairly consistent way.  

But now the exciting threads [here](http://publiclab.org/notes/Schroyer/11-23-2013/measure-coarse-and-fine-air-particulates-with-a-dustduino#c8835) and [here](http://publiclab.org/notes/Willie/04-01-2014/field-testing-the-shenyei-pm-sensor) are making me think grandiose thoughts.  

- Check out Willie's awesome [teardown of the Shinyei sensor](https://i.publiclab.org/system/images/photos/000/003/471/original/ShinyeiPPD42NS_Insides_Labeled_600.jpg), and the [nice writeup](http://www.howmuchsnow.com/arduino/airquality/grovedust/) of how it works ...

- Could we make a 'shield' for the OpenLux that has a) some additional IR LEDs, oriented at an appropriate angle, with a collimating light baffle and an air intake (all 3D printed, I suppose), along with a place for a lens that would sit in front of the OpenLux NIR LEDs -- and then make our own, cheap particle detector?  

- Maybe with two lenses, or a reflector + a lens, we could simply fashion a 'lens cap' for the OpenLux that fit right on top, that works to detect particles in an air gap right in front of it?  So that we can use the photodiodes and IR LEDs in their current configuration?

- Is the 'heating element' in the Shinyei detector simply a way of providing a certain amount of air flow through the sensor? Or is it a way of accounting for the temperature of the air?  A heating element is a battery suck (if we'd like to do this on a battery -- maybe not).  If the element is to encourage air flow, maybe we could find a way to enhance air flow that doesn't require heating (i.e. locating the device near a window, or near a laptop fan, or etc).  If it's to account for temperature, we do have a non-contact IR sensor on the OpenLux, which also has an internal thermistor ... and there's also a breakout for an external thermistor ... or I could add e.g. a TMP100 surface mounted sensor to the board ... 

I'm also thinking that the ring of individually-addressable LEDs will make for a fun way of indicating measurement levels (of whatever).  We could even have an old-school Knight Rider / Cylon effect ... and maybe make the buzzer make an associated 'swoosh swoosh' noise ... 