---
node: Meter Stick REVA: Lights, Buzzers, Particulate Matter ... oh, my!
author: donblair
created_at: 2014-04-24 00:00:59 +0000
timestamp: 1398297659
nid: 10349
cid: 8870
uid: 43651
---



[donblair](../profile/donblair) replying to: [Meter Stick REVA: Lights, Buzzers, Particulate Matter ... oh, my!](../notes/donblair/04-23-2014/meter-stick-reva-lights-buzzers-particulate-matter-oh-my)

----
Ah, great points.  It's true that having immediate, "here's how many particles your device registered in the last 30 seconds" data might not be so useful.  I was sort of imagining that there could be some time-averaging on the device, so that if the particulate matter level has been "high" in the few hours, the line of LEDs would be fully red, or blinking, or what-have-you ... but right, maybe one was already coughing, and new that there was a lot of dust in the air ... or could simply run one's finger across a table-top ...

Spot-on re: the ability to record data over time.  This "Meter Stick" design is intended to exploit an already-extant laptop, or old desktop, that's always-on in the home.  Data can be gathered and pushed online from a dust sensor (or other sensors) via this "Meter Stick", which is intended to be as minimalist as possible (no onboard storage) -- simply a conduit from the sensor to the laptop.  

But dedicating a laptop or a desktop to this application might prove onerous for some; and if one doesn't already have a laptop or desktop to spare, it's quite an expensive approach.  For those cases, I'm about to post a revised version of the OpenLux -- which has both on-board flash memory (cheap, easy, but only 128 Kb), and a microSD card.  I'm trying to design it so that the precise configuration is modular -- optional display, optional microSD, etc -- in order to address several use-cases as inexpensively as possible.  Let me see if I can this new design up quickly -- can't wait to get feedback on it ...
