---
node: A Wratten 25A replacement from Rosco?
author: cfastie
created_at: 2014-04-29 01:40:39 +0000
timestamp: 1398735639
nid: 10376
cid: 8908
uid: 554
---



[cfastie](../profile/cfastie) replying to: [A Wratten 25A replacement from Rosco?](../notes/mathew/04-29-2014/a-wratten-25a-replacement-from-rosco)

----
All three of those filters will probably be good replacements for Wratten 25. Doing some tests with them is the only way to tell, and I suspect it will be very hard to differentiate  between them without extremely careful tests. Their performance is likely to vary with sky color, light quality, plant type, exposure, etc., so it will take some effort to know which is best in most situations. The curves Rosco publishes are almost certainly hand drawn from the 20 nm data under the graph (and those data may not be from the most precise device).  Those three filters are so similar that even the data may not characterize the differences well. 

It's a bit of a mystery how the Rosco 19 can be 20% transmission and the Rosco 25 is 14%. The data don't look that different. But in general, the more transmission the better. The photo quality will be better with more light.

Rosco 19 and 25 look identical except for the blip in the UV in the 25. One nice thing about a red filter is that the blue channel can record only pure NIR light. So it might be nice to have as little transmittance around 400 nm as possible to keep UV and blue out. So Rosco 19 might have an edge there.

Rosco 26 cuts out some of the red near 600-620 nm compared to the 19 and 25. So the proportion of red to NIR in the red channel will be smaller than in the 19 or 25. We want that proportion to be as big as possible, so the red channel can represent red light better. So 26 might be the worse choice of the three.

So go with Fire.