---
node: Detection of Olive Oil Adulteration (with Peanut Oil) Using Visual Light Spectroscopy
author: stoft
created_at: 2014-05-01 19:04:49 +0000
timestamp: 1398971089
nid: 10382
cid: 8940
uid: 54025
---



[stoft](../profile/stoft) replying to: [Detection of Olive Oil Adulteration (with Peanut Oil) Using Visual Light Spectroscopy](../notes/ygzstc/04-30-2014/detection-of-olive-oil-adulteration-with-peanut-oil-using-visual-light-spectroscopy)

----
Ok, so the plots are absorption; which makes more sense. However, the Y axis is labeled "Intensity". It would be more clear to either plot relative absorption (the inverse of your plot with negative values) or use the term absorption. Ultimately, units are also important if you wish to report relative values (i.e. relative to what -- some measurable reference of absorption).

Jeff, if the bulb he's using really does have a very sharp peak at 460nm, then I'm surprised by the broader absorption band data. If the light source is not generating much spectral energy at 500nm (a factor of ~1/6 of the 460 peak) then the plotted data near 500nm becomes much less robust (noise will become predominant). Absorption plots for olive and other oils seem to cover from ~520nm and far below with a spike at about 670nm.

I'd suggest two alternatives for improving the data reliability. 1) A Solux halogen would provide broadband spectra down to below 400nm. (No, not completely flat but at least a smooth curve only down about 1/3 (-3.5dB) at 380nm relative to 500nm). This would provide a measurement curve which would better cover the actual absorption curve of the oils; thus reducing measurement errors due to weak 'out of band' source signals. 2) An intermediate improvement would be to limit the measurement to the source's bandwidth. In the case of the LED, only accept the data from within the 460nm spike bandwidth. When the source signal level drops (below 425nm and above 475nm) it is about 15dB down and noise will predominate - so maybe accept 430-470nm; a 50nm BW). Even with a bandwidth limit, there are still additional errors just because the source is not 'flat' within the measurement band so you are still relying on the absorption curve to be 'flat' (which it isn't) in order to use a narrow-band source.

If you are looking to do comparative measurements between samples (after you have a handle on the source issue and the measurable effects of the fluid for dilution) you would need to control the linear distance the light will travel through the sample (i.e. fixed cuvette vs petri dish puddle) to gain control over that absorption variable.

Cheers, Dave


