---
cid: 8950
node: [How do we measure particulate stuff in the air?](../notes/donblair/05-03-2014/how-do-we-measure-particulate-stuff-in-the-air)
nid: 10406
created_at: 2014-05-03 14:23:26 +0000
timestamp: 1399127006
uid: 43229
author: [btbonval](../profile/btbonval)
---

Some of the particle counters I have used in the past worked on a straight, column of air. It looks like your box is more like a mixing chamber than an air channel. The right angles will lead to vortices which prevent some particles from leaving in a timely fashion.

The columns of air are usually channeled through a plastic or glass tube to prevent any vortex problems. The main concern with tubes is that they must be cleaned. One way to diagnostically check when a tube needs cleaning is to run hepa filtered air through the device as a control and check that against the expected clean measurements. If the measurements are too far off, it's time for a cleaning.

That control baseline can be used to adapt the internal algorithm for some level of dirt and grime, but after some point the signal gets lost to the noise of dirt which has deposited on the tube. That's when it is time to clean the tube.

You're primarily measuring reflectance with the orthogonal IR sensor. You might get even more delicious data if you add an IR sensor in line with the IR LED, which would measure absorbance to some small degree. If nothing else, it's a secondary channel of data that can potentially be used with data fusion to reduce noise.

[btbonval](../profile/btbonval) replying to: [How do we measure particulate stuff in the air?](../notes/donblair/05-03-2014/how-do-we-measure-particulate-stuff-in-the-air)

