---
cid: 8956
node: [How do we measure particulate stuff in the air?](../notes/donblair/05-03-2014/how-do-we-measure-particulate-stuff-in-the-air)
nid: 10406
created_at: 2014-05-03 16:13:50 +0000
timestamp: 1399133630
uid: 420189
author: [DavidMack](../profile/DavidMack)
---

I'd say the heater/resistor is used to heat the air sample to avoid condensation in the chamber and on the optics.  Also, any aerosol (liquid and solids) will trigger the sample so to avoid liquid interference, like fog, some instruments will heat the intake.  However, if you over heat you can burn the particles and change their composition and size.  The high-end instruments use a nafion dryer and even those can remove certain SVOC.

Without some sort of fan or pump the intake and exhaust seems arbitrary.  I'd look into using a small fan on the exhaust rather than invest in a hot wire anemometer. Look for something with a low energy use because the pump is often the biggest energy draw on the batteries.

I don't see this type of device doing particle sizing but just a total particle reading, which for certain ranges you might be able to correlate that back to a a mass measurement (ug/m3).  Particle sizing is usually done with a selective inlet, which I've seen very primitive inlets so that is a possibility down the road but it's a fairly elaborate process  to characterize a selective inlet and it's going to require an air pump on the device.

For protecting the optics from dust build up, the common technique is to put an air curtain around the emitter and detector lens.  You need a pump to do this too but essentially you draw in ambient air through a filter then pump it into the sensor chamber then let it bleed into the detection chamber through some holes.  You do the same with the light source so you need to put a box and window on the source too.  I'm guessing this would be cost prohibitive for this but if you want to sample in very dirty environments that's the technique.

Baseline testing with a filter is common (to zero the instrument as it gets dirtier).  A HEPA filter is best but you can get away with these little inline coalescing particle filters, McMaster http://www.mcmaster.com/#41575k57/=rt0sep



[DavidMack](../profile/DavidMack) replying to: [How do we measure particulate stuff in the air?](../notes/donblair/05-03-2014/how-do-we-measure-particulate-stuff-in-the-air)

