---
cid: 8970
node: [Improved DIY NIR camera calibration](../notes/nedhorning/05-01-2014/improved-diy-nir-camera-calibration)
nid: 10389
created_at: 2014-05-05 13:14:45 +0000
timestamp: 1399295685
uid: 554
author: [cfastie](../profile/cfastie)
---

How close is this to what you are trying to do?

NDVI depends on the difference between two values: 

1. the amount of near infrared light (in a particular wavelength band) reflected from leaves and 
2. the amount of visible light (usually a particular band of red light) reflected from leaves.  

Cameras make photographs by sensing this reflected light, but the sensed amounts of light that would reach each pixel are modified in order to make a photo that appears realistic to our eyes.  So before the camera produces a jpeg photo, gamma correction has made dim areas of photos brighter, white balance corrections have systematically changed the relative brightness of the three colors recorded in each pixel, and other corrections are probably made to make the colors more realistic.  So the difference between the amounts of light in the red and blue channels no longer relate simply to the amounts of red and blue light that were reflected from the scene and arrived at the camera sensor (in the Wratten 25A camera used here, the red channel records visible mostly red light, and the blue channel records near infrared light). 

In order to adjust the jpeg so that the brightness values for each pixel more closely represent the actual amounts of reflected light in the scene, we have to know how those two things are related. For example, if there are two colored surfaces in the scene and we know (because a spectrometer measured it) that one reflects twice as much red light as the other, we can take a photo and then adjust the jpeg so that the value for red for the brighter surface is twice that of the other.  With several different surfaces we are able to get a mathematical relationship (regression) between actual reflected light of any color and brightness recorded for that color in the jpeg.  Then the red, green, and blue (NIR) values for every pixel in the jpeg are adjusted (new value = some function of old value).  I think a single function (equation) could be used for all colors, but maybe separate equations could be used for each color.




[cfastie](../profile/cfastie) replying to: [Improved DIY NIR camera calibration](../notes/nedhorning/05-01-2014/improved-diy-nir-camera-calibration)

