---
node: Mobius NDVI
author: kendrick90
created_at: 2014-05-06 09:16:36 +0000
timestamp: 1399367796
nid: 10369
cid: 8976
uid: 423235
---



[kendrick90](../profile/kendrick90) replying to: [Mobius NDVI](../notes/cfastie/04-26-2014/mobius-ndvi)

----
I initially found this site while searching for automatic insect recognition because I'm interested in the potential for robots to help us by shooting pests with lasers. I'm super new to all of this but I've been reading for a few hours and after seeing these two posts
http://publiclab.org/notes/cfastie/10-11-2013/oaktober
http://publiclab.org/notes/cfastie/11-27-2013/cryptogams
as well as this one I am left wondering if one camera systems can give meaningful NDVI data. It seems to me that if the system can't detect a difference between a brown or red leaf and a green one then we aren't getting the kind of info that we want from NDVI. The Wratten25A almost gets it but like on the cryptogram page the fern and the brown leaves have about the same value. Maybe a different formula would have to be used like where R=NIR+Red, G=X*NIR, and B=Y*NIR, where X and Y are coefficients that correspond to how much the G and B sensors pick up the NIR so that NIR=(G/X+B/Y)/2 then NDVI=((G/X+B/Y)-R)/(R) . Of course the white balance will change the values of X and Y. If you can get the B sensor (or G) to match the NIR picked up by the R sensor then you can simplify the equation to NDVI=(2B-R)/R. You could test this if you got a red filter and compared the R and B values for an IR source. Or maybe you could just set your white balance based on looking at an IR LED with all visible light filtered and set the white balance so R and B have the same pixel values for that source. Anyways I don't know if this makes sense or if it was helpful in any way. If I can make a request, personally, I'd like to see some close ups of sick leaves and also plants with insects on them. Keep up the amazing work!