---
cid: 9006
node: [Improved DIY NIR camera calibration](../notes/nedhorning/05-01-2014/improved-diy-nir-camera-calibration)
nid: 10389
created_at: 2014-05-10 01:37:54 +0000
timestamp: 1399685874
uid: 411681
author: [Roolark](../profile/Roolark)
---

Ned, I'm not sure how much this information would help you out here, but I just finished my research thesis, which looked at the NIR sensitivity of the red, green, and blue bayer mosaic channels of a Canon Rebel T3 that had its hot mirror replaced with glass. I did the study on 3 different targets, using RAW. Here are the takeaway points that might interest/inform your research:

The blue, green, and red channels on the sensor all have sensitivity to NIR; blue has the least, and red the most. Also, the reflectance of the target in the NIR impacts the correlation/covariance between the channel's normal wavelength (ie. blue) and what it picks up in the NIR. If the target has a high NIR reflectance, then the correlation between the NIR portion of the DN value and the Blue (or red, or green) portion is much greater >.85 r^2. When the NIR reflectance of the target is moderate or low, the correlation is much less. 

Basically, the difficulty with calibrating the images will arise when an image has many different objects/targets, at which point, for a calibration that is better than a coarse estimate, the spectral reflectance of every target would need to be known and calibrated with the corresponding 2 wavelengths in each pixel (in a single camera, dual bandpass solution). For a multi-camera solution, it is still important to consider that the NIR reflectance of the target affects how much the red/green/blue bayer mosaic filter allows through to the sensor.

[Roolark](../profile/Roolark) replying to: [Improved DIY NIR camera calibration](../notes/nedhorning/05-01-2014/improved-diy-nir-camera-calibration)

