---
node: Mobilizing Data to Combat the Evil Green Crab
author: erget
created_at: 2014-05-10 07:15:10 +0000
timestamp: 1399706110
nid: 10452
cid: 9007
uid: 420460
---



[erget](../profile/erget) replying to: [Mobilizing Data to Combat the Evil Green Crab](../notes/code4maine/05-08-2014/mobilizing-data-to-combat-the-evil-green-crab)

----
[@code4maine](/profile/code4maine) - I haven't submitted a research note, unfortunately. What you 
describe, however, is pretty similar to what I'm planning. I have to say that
I'm very surprised about the possibility of putting together a multirotor
aircraft that can stay in the air for an hour - that's way outside of anything
I've heard of, although I work much more on the software than on the hardware
side of things. For such long surveys, I would also think that a fixed-wing
aircraft would be better suited.

[@mathew](/profile/mathew) - I'm definitely going to be using SfM for 3D reconstruction of aerial
surveys. In the very long term, short-range 3D reconstruction from stereo
images is something we're wanting to try out for close-range navigation - a 
way of doing some very rudimentary, zero a priori knowledge SLAM. It's actually
planned for much later in my PhD, but since I don't have a drone I wanted
something I could work on now, so I just built a stereo camera and got going
with it. 

I would love to contribute to Mapknitter.  I think that would help a lot in
simplifying the workflow (so the code actually gets used ;) ), and since
Mapknitter can also be installed stand-alone it would still not require that
the user have an internet connection, which is an important requirement for my
project. Is there a development road map, project guidelines, etc., and how 
can I coordinate with you best? I see that the sources are on GitHub, but I
think it would be good to speak about the details before I send any pull
requests, etc.