---
cid: 9014
node: [Mobilizing Data to Combat the Evil Green Crab](../notes/code4maine/05-08-2014/mobilizing-data-to-combat-the-evil-green-crab)
nid: 10452
created_at: 2014-05-11 16:41:22 +0000
timestamp: 1399826482
uid: 294634
author: [ajawitz](../profile/ajawitz)
---

cfastie- That seems like the best approach yet. I'm going to forward your suggestion to the teacher in charge of field collections though we might need to break it down a little more as he's not so technically inclined.

mathew-  The kite we've been using is the HQ Power Sled, and has proven to be more capable than most models at low wind.  I don't think there are any issues with the kite, though it occurs to me that there might be some serious shortcomings in my use of baseline windspeed metrics if 6mph  is considered sufficient.  Unless there really are kites out there that can lift off in any conditions no matter what, then as a matter of course there will be some days when there is not enough wind, even on the coast of Maine, to lift a kite in the air without mechanical assistance.  My point about the UAV+Balloon+Kite comparison is not to judge once and for all, which one is best, but rather to show how each tool has its own unique capabilities that can be used to complement the others if used correctly.  The goal is to match the capabilities to the field conditions that might demand it. I figured wind conditions would be a good measure as it certainly has an effect on whether one uses a kite or balloon.  However, I'm beginning to think that basic wind measurements may not be a very accurate tool for determining which tool to use.  This could be of major significance to my other project I mentioned earlier where I've been trying to set up a weather alert webapp for grassroots mappers.  
  I've decided to try another experiment which I'll document on my other research note- http://publiclab.org/notes/code4maine/05-06-2014/simple-weather-alert-web-app-for-grassroots-mappers

   My usual method for determining if conditions are sufficient for kite mapping is to simply look out my window at the height of the waves.  This is actually pretty reliable when you consider larger waves must be generated by relatively consistent winds.  Like yesterday, there does not appear to be nearly enough wind to fly a kite today.  Yet some weather sources still report windspeeds up to 7mph.  So I'm going to try a couple different things...  First I'll take a picture of the waves measured against something for reference.  Then I'll take readings from a couple different windspeed apps and log the measurements.  Then I'll sample weather reports from a few mainstream sources.  Finally, I'll see if I can in fact get a sled kite in the air in present conditions (which would also be a good test for whether or not wifi-only iPod/iPads will stamp Exif data if nowhere near a wifi connection since I'll be using an old iPod touch).

[ajawitz](../profile/ajawitz) replying to: [Mobilizing Data to Combat the Evil Green Crab](../notes/code4maine/05-08-2014/mobilizing-data-to-combat-the-evil-green-crab)

