---
cid: 9031
node: [Mobilizing Data to Combat the Evil Green Crab](../notes/code4maine/05-08-2014/mobilizing-data-to-combat-the-evil-green-crab)
nid: 10452
created_at: 2014-05-14 22:36:28 +0000
timestamp: 1400106988
uid: 294634
author: [ajawitz](../profile/ajawitz)
---

Don't get me wrong.  I didn't mean to come off as "the drone guy" (and every DIY tech forum seems to have one these days...)  I think my intended point might've been obscured by my attention to UAV potential.  I meant to say that every tool, be it kite, balloon, submarine, aircraft carrier etc...will have its superpower and its kryptonite.  But these relative strengths and weaknesses strongly complement each other.  So where windless days may be the kite's kryptonite, it would be the perfect place for the weather balloon to unleash its superpowers.  
  Far from advocating Quads over anything else, I'm not even sure if they have any purpose at all that can't already be accomplished more effectively and affordably through another tool!  But this is what I wanted to examine.  Perhaps quadrotors could fill an important niche mapping places that are hard to reach with a tethered balloon or kite?  For the time being at least, its likely to remain in the hobbyist/enthusiast domain and as such would be highly unlikely to ever match the accessibility, affordability and ubiquity of the KAP techniques.  However, it does make me wonder if there are ways to tap into the collective expertise of other hobby/enthusiast communities  for specific roles.  HAM radio comes to mind?

  One last question...   We'll be test flying either a balloon or a kite tomorrow afternoon at the research site...  I've rigged up a Raspberry Pi w/NOIR Cam into an Otter Box enclosure akin to a rig you posted on a while back.  Is this something you would recommend after doing it yourself?  Are you still using the same Python timelapse script or have you found another way to remote trigger the function?

[ajawitz](../profile/ajawitz) replying to: [Mobilizing Data to Combat the Evil Green Crab](../notes/code4maine/05-08-2014/mobilizing-data-to-combat-the-evil-green-crab)

