---
cid: 9141
node: [GSoC Update: Week 1](../notes/xvidun/05-28-2014/gsoc-update-week-1)
nid: 10516
created_at: 2014-06-04 20:22:17 +0000
timestamp: 1401913337
uid: 4
author: [mathew](../profile/mathew)
---

definitely agree re: no need for "start upload" button, and the the big drop zone with the dotted line.  I wasn't imagining an exclusive dropzone, but that is what the sketch looked like.   A sidebar might be better-- good thoughts on how we place this without eating too much real estate. I also am playing with the idea of a popout window.  a "poppable" sidebar would be cool.

As we get into the map annotations with embedded pictures/notes/audio, some sort of file management zone seems to become important.  Maybe the map image zone isn't the place to play with that.

you'll have to sell me on the idea of only listing images in the current window area-- it sounds like a "bouncy" menu that will change as I move around the map and drive me kinda nuts with its rapid movement. I'm thinking of menus on phones that change between the time I think to touch them and when my finger gets there (think Google Maps suggestions).
I understand that when people get to lots and lots of images in Mapknitter a "master list" may get a bit unwieldy. I think that can be manageable if the correspondence between image in map and image in list is maintained by highlighting images on the map when clicking on the list and vise versa.

Ordering is a big issue for me, and Chris echoed my thoughts.  Would it be a big feature to manually order, since ordering is already a necessity? 
I want to do it while knitting.  Its especially a problem in the existing mapknitter when I place an image with a small area then realize I want to place an image with a larger area to fill a hole in the map, but it will completely obscure the more detailed image placed first.  Its super hard to match the two, because mapknitter usually puts the first placed image in the background.  I find myself deleting the smaller image, placing the big one, and then re-placing the small image.  
That said, the list doesn't have to manage ordering. A "bring image forward/back" control that can be used when working with an image would allow the sort of relativistic sorting you're talking about. 

[mathew](../profile/mathew) replying to: [GSoC Update: Week 1](../notes/xvidun/05-28-2014/gsoc-update-week-1)

