---
cid: 9170
node: [Tips on Sorting on Windows, including re-naming filenames](../notes/eustatic/06-08-2014/tips-on-sorting-on-windows-including-re-naming-filenames)
nid: 10540
created_at: 2014-06-10 03:08:33 +0000
timestamp: 1402369713
uid: 554
author: [cfastie](../profile/cfastie)
---

This is a really important topic. Scott, what is the program in the main image above? Is that what you use to do the sorting you describe here? What version of Windows are you using?

Windows always comes with Windows Media Player which can display, sort, rate, and tag photos.  [Here is a tutorial for sorting, rating, and tagging photos in Windows Media Player 12](http://www.7tutorials.com/how-sort-tag-and-rate-pictures-windows-media-player-12).  It might be more suitable than Windows Explorer. Windows Explorer also allows most of these functions, but Media Player is designed to maintain a database of media assets, so is probably faster and smarter at it. I assume Windows Explorer does not create a database, so every sort requires extracting data from each photo file. 

Neither of these programs is very adept at the task of organizing photos, so it would be good to hear about other Windows programs that are. I don't know of any free programs, so I bought Adobe Lightroom. My Lightroom database has 78,000 photos in it, which includes all the EXIF data, IPTC data, other metadata, and exposure/cropping adjustments (the photo files are not in the database, just thumbnails and a pointer to wherever they are on my hard drives). The program still runs fast, unlike Windows Explorer which bogged down sorting a few dozen photos. Lightroom can store a rating (1-5) for each photo, but also a color code (1 of 5), and a flag (yes or no). So there is never a need to edit the file name of a photo, which as Scott says usually encodes the capture order of the photos and should be maintained. Lightroom allows infinitely resizeable preview icons, rotation, and sorting on 12 parameters. When photos are imported from an SD card or hard drive, the file name can be modified to include a meaningful string, and tags, titles, location, and dozens of other fields can be automatically entered for each photo. If all or some of your kite photos are too dark, or too light, or too dull, Lightroom can batch adjust them. It can even batch crop photos, so if 500 photos have the soda bottle edge in the corner, or a timestamp, you can crop it out of all of them at once. 

[Lightroom](http://www.adobe.com/products/photoshop-lightroom.html) costs $150 or $80 for academics. Or subscribe to Photoshop for $10/month for the rest of your life and they throw in Lightroom. There is a 30 day free trial.

[cfastie](../profile/cfastie) replying to: [Tips on Sorting on Windows, including re-naming filenames](../notes/eustatic/06-08-2014/tips-on-sorting-on-windows-including-re-naming-filenames)

