---
cid: 9209
node: [What Mobile Apps for Repeat Photography Do You Use?](../notes/chelseak/06-18-2014/what-mobile-apps-for-repeat-photography-do-you-use)
nid: 10588
created_at: 2014-06-18 19:39:35 +0000
timestamp: 1403120375
uid: 554
author: [cfastie](../profile/cfastie)
---

Hi Chelsea,

I don't have much experience with mobile phone cameras or with mobile phone apps, but I have taken a bunch of repeat photos. An app that overlaid a previous photo on the live view of the camera could help align the new photo with the old (do such apps exist?). But that would get messy if the old photo was not taken with the same camera at the same zoom level. And the camera has to be held very close to where it was when the previous photo was taken. And seeing both juxtaposed images in daylight well enough to align them could be a challenge. Automatic alignment might require a rather sophisticated app.

The hardest part of repeating a photo is putting the camera in the exact same spot where it was when the previous photo was taken, and also matching the focal length. Then you just have to point the camera in the right direction. So if you somehow mark the spot from which the photo was taken, and also place or select a permanent marker in the exact center of the view of the photo, all you have to do is point the camera at that marker. For study plots, a permanent stake can be installed at the center of the scene's view. For landscape views, a landscape element can be put in the center of the view and noted for subsequent repeats. Many cameras or apps have a sighting target at the center of the field which will help place the marker in the exact center of the photo.

Repeating the exact location of the camera can be done with a short stake in the ground marking where to put the same tripod used previously. Or you can install a tall stake that the camera can rest directly on. But installing tall sturdy stakes might be more work than carrying a tripod (or monopod) with you.

If you need really good rectification of the two photos, the most important part is taking both photos from the exact same camera location (using the same camera helps too). If the camera is not aimed in exactly the same direction, the two photos will not overlap completely, but free software is available to align the overlapping parts of the photos, or this can be done manually. This only works if the camera was in the exact same location.

Chris

[cfastie](../profile/cfastie) replying to: [What Mobile Apps for Repeat Photography Do You Use?](../notes/chelseak/06-18-2014/what-mobile-apps-for-repeat-photography-do-you-use)

