---
cid: 9352
node: [Potentiostat Notes-1, WheeStat history](../notes/JSummers/11-02-2013/potentiostat-notes-1-wheestat-history)
nid: 9718
created_at: 2014-06-30 13:44:45 +0000
timestamp: 1404135885
uid: 304279
author: [JSummers](../profile/JSummers)
---

Hi Doug,
I am still not entirely clear on what it is that you ultimately want to do.  I understand that you wish to prepare a PbO2 surface on graphite.  Are you preparing this to measure electrochemistry on the surface of the PbO2?  If so, then you will ultimately want to have a three electrode potentiostat like the WheeStat or the Cheapstat.  It might be easiest (and most cost effective) for you to have a separate power supply to prepare of your electrode and a potentiostat to do your analysis. 
If you only want the potentiostat to prepare the electrode, then perhaps you can get by with an adjustable power supply and a couple of transistors.  Sparkfun has a nice tutorial on making such a power supply (https://www.sparkfun.com/tutorials/57) and I will be happy to help you figure out how to program a microcontroller to do the switching .  If you want to monitor the current while you do this, then that is something of intermediate complexity, and I am willing to help you with that as well.  Of course, if you wish to do preparative electrochemistry with the PbO2 electrode, then you may need higher current electronics for that step.
The answer to your question about voltage limitations is that our potentiostat (and also the Cheapstat) is capable of delivering +/- vcc/2.  Since we are using a 3.3 volt microcontroller that means 1.65 volts.  I believe the Cheapstat runs off of 3.3 volts also, but I am not sure.  If you use a microcontroller with 5 volt logic, then you will be able to get to 2.5 volts.  The current is probably limited by what you can get out of the usb port on the computer, although it might be limited by the voltage regulator on the microcontroller board.
Hope this helps.
Best,
Jack

[JSummers](../profile/JSummers) replying to: [Potentiostat Notes-1, WheeStat history](../notes/JSummers/11-02-2013/potentiostat-notes-1-wheestat-history)

