---
node: Sketches for a self-contained portable spectrometer using a Raspberry Pi
author: rsevs3
created_at: 2012-06-21 20:11:00 +0000
timestamp: 1340309460
nid: 1936
cid: 939
uid: 596
---



[rsevs3](../profile/rsevs3) replying to: [Sketches for a self-contained portable spectrometer using a Raspberry Pi](../notes/warren/5-9-2012/sketches-self-contained-portable-spectrometer-using-raspberry-pi)

----
I certainly understand what you mean and my question was more along the lines of whether the mailing list would be more suited... I dont really understand the whole mailing list thing and its purpose. A forum just seems a lot easier to me.

I suppose that initially my questions would be regarding how and what to run on the RP. Taking into consideration what you have developed already, using processing etc, and the future direction you envision the project taking, whether that be a local program or web based. I noticed that one of the open issues on GIT is a completely web-based spectrometry client.  If you think that a local program is still necessary then i am wondering if the overheads of processing will be too much for the RP to handle and it may become necessary to write it in another language such as Python, which then could be compiled for other platforms i think... Python seems to be able to do everything required and is able to interface directly with the webcam from what i can see here: <a href="http://www.raspberrypi.org/phpBB3/viewtopic.php?f=32&t=8936">Python webcam interface.</a> Although, I dont know the capabilities of processing, so you may have a very valid reason for using it.

So i think the RP is definitely capable of achieving what is needed. I think it could even run a web server on it as a nice interface.

Please note that i am not trying to change the direction of the project or even suggest i know what i am talking about. I only have limited programming experience and your efforts have far exceeded anything that i could have achieved. I am just trying to understand where everyone is working towards so i can contribute in a useful way.