---
cid: 941
node: [Sketches for a self-contained portable spectrometer using a Raspberry Pi](../notes/warren/5-9-2012/sketches-self-contained-portable-spectrometer-using-raspberry-pi)
nid: 1936
created_at: 2012-06-22 04:41:28 +0000
timestamp: 1340340088
uid: 596
author: [rsevs3](../profile/rsevs3)
---

With the in browser version, i thought a huge advantage of html5 is the ability to use a website offline. For example, if it isnt already, gmail will be available offline and you can store it all in the browser. One other advantage of this is that if a way is found to analyse the spectrum automagically to look for specific compounds/elements etc having it done locally will save a huge amount of server load. I am thinking in terms of having people 'set and forget' an analyser looking at a river water quality for example. (It is entirely possible that these could operate in a GSM network area and send out its results with something like: <a href="https://www.sparkfun.com/products/10138">GSM Module.</a>

<a href="http://www.html5rocks.com/en/tutorials/offline/storage/">html5 Offline Storage</a>

I wonder if this is a way to provide offline usage and not have to maintain 2 lots of code? I dont know if the RP would have enough memory to run it in this fashion though... I know that using that emulator i mentioned certainly makes you appreciate both the impressive capabilities and the short falling in terms of memory compared to a PC.

I think you are using ruby on rails for your server side development? I wonder if my time could be better spent learning that. I dont have a huge amount (read: any :P) of python experience, although i was doing a bit of reading on it last night and it seems fairly intuitive and easy to learn. I might keep looking at it as an option. After all, i dont think it would be too hard to make it work with the API you have developed already to send spectrum images to the server.

So much fun to be had if only we could get our hands on a RP!

[rsevs3](../profile/rsevs3) replying to: [Sketches for a self-contained portable spectrometer using a Raspberry Pi](../notes/warren/5-9-2012/sketches-self-contained-portable-spectrometer-using-raspberry-pi)

