---
cid: 9447
node: [Dissecting Humidity from Particle Count in Frac Sand Sampling ](../notes/Jdahlen/06-24-2014/dissecting-humidity-from-particle-count-in-frac-sand-sampling)
nid: 10611
created_at: 2014-07-07 22:08:40 +0000
timestamp: 1404770920
uid: 420189
author: [DavidMack](../profile/DavidMack)
---

[@jefffalk](/profile/jefffalk) TSI explains the instrument and its calibration in documents on its web site:

http://www.tsi.com/DUSTTRAK-Aerosol-Monitor-8520/

see "theory of operation" and also the "Rationale... for Photo Calibration Factor"

But in short they emit some dust (but just not any dust, it's Arizona Road Dust, with its very own  ISO standard) and calibrate it to a mass concentration:

"The DUSTTRAK™ monitor is calibrated against a gravimetric reference using the respirable fraction of standard ISO 12103-1, A1 test dust (Arizona Test Dust). This test dust has a wide size distribution covering the entire size range of the DUSTTRAK™ monitor and is representative of a wide variety of ambient aerosols. The wide range of particle sizes averages the effect of particle size dependence on the measured signal.The sensing volume of the DUSTTRAK™ monitor is constant and is defined by the intersection of the aerosol stream and the laser beam. Mass is determined from the intensity of light scattered by the aerosol within the fixed sensing volume. Since the sensing volume is known, the information can be easily converted by the DUSTTRAK™ microprocessor to units of mass per unit volume (mg/m3)."

if you look at a TSI calibration certificate you'll see they calibrate four points, just found this googling, see http://xtralis.com/misc/VIPAC%20Test%20Report%20-%20ASD%20Performance%20and%20Reliability%20Testing%20in%20Dust%20Laden%20Environment.pdf

It looks like the cal point targets are 0, 1, 5, and 25 mg/m3 and the acceptable tolerance is +/- 10%

they also note that above 70% RH the instrument reading is "over-estimating" values.

I don't think a water correction is going to be fruitful.  It might work up to a certain RH but once the RH goes too high it's going to saturate the response. It depends on your location but it's not uncommon to have fog at day break where I live and that'll flood the detector.  Theremo/MIE actually sells a heated inlet with their DataRAM instrument to reduce water interference but it requires power from the grid.

The OnSet Hobos are great.  I'd use one just for QC and then if you see high RH you might deem the PM invalid.

[DavidMack](../profile/DavidMack) replying to: [Dissecting Humidity from Particle Count in Frac Sand Sampling ](../notes/Jdahlen/06-24-2014/dissecting-humidity-from-particle-count-in-frac-sand-sampling)

