---
node: Thinking about a small Linux web app server initiative. Who wants to join?
author: rjstatic
created_at: 2014-07-11 19:11:55 +0000
timestamp: 1405105915
nid: 10668
cid: 9474
uid: 174
---



[rjstatic](../profile/rjstatic) replying to: [Thinking about a small Linux web app server initiative. Who wants to join?](../notes/rjstatic/07-09-2014/thinking-about-a-small-linux-web-app-server-initiative-who-wants-to-join)

----

[@mathew](/profile/mathew) That's an interesting proposal. Moving Webs Apps on the Cloud to the Ground. It would be like, "Ya, Mapknitter is a web app but the users host it themselves." There might be varying degrees of "the users host it themselves". Here's a couple of questions a project looking to go from the Cloud to the Ground might ask itself.

1. app pages are hosted on the ground or cloud?
1. heavy processing happens on the ground or cloud?
1. users' own data is stored on the ground or cloud?
1. all users' data on the ground or cloud?
1. all users host all users' data on the ground?

For an app like Mappknitter on Raspberry Pi or BeagleBone Black, the low hanging fruit might be (ground, cloud, ground, cloud, cloud) but a long term goal might be (ground, ground, ground, ground, neither because they share data using Tor protocols). 

[@code4maine](/profile/code4maine) I've seen that App Portal you speak of in Commotion Wireless and I've been meaning to look into the code. Dogi and I tried out [Commotion Wireless on Ubiquity Nano bridges on a farm in New Hampshire](http://farmhack.net/forums/sending-wifi-other-side-farm-under-200-part-1) but it's not part of our deployment yet because we defaulted to the standard AirOS (for the moment). I'm very excited about the potential of Commotion Wireless to lower the barrier to entry for folks looking to create wide reaching LANs. 

On the App Portal part, I haven't looked into their code yet for that but I've considered an "App Portal" for the Open Ground SDK. One difficult part is if you have more than one installed, segmenting them could be tough given that Web Apps are sometimes designed to work on just one server so there might be a lot of stepping on toes. Maybe that could be solved with something like [Docker](http://www.docker.com/)... Can anyone with more experience with something like Docker weigh in on that?

Lastly, thanks for pushing the Commotion stuff, I'll reach out to [Josh King](http://newamerica.net/user/310), lead technologist for OTI which oversees Commotion Wireless development, to see if he has any iput on this thread.

[@donblair](/profile/donblair) I love that logo! It captures the coolness of this project so well ;).  On broadcasting data to the cloud, I see that syncing to the Apitronics Cloud is now a [pull request](https://github.com/apitronics/Hive/pull/23) for the Hive code which is exciting! Hive also uses CouchDB so technically if you host your own CouchDB online or use any of the paid CouchDB hosting (Cloudant, IrisCouch, Couchappy, Treehouse) you can sync your data up to the Cloud by copying and pasting your Cloud's URL into your local CouchDB's web forms. Easy peesy (sp?)!  
