---
node: Inconsistent two cam ndvi
author: ttaylor
created_at: 2014-07-13 16:07:21 +0000
timestamp: 1405267641
nid: 10674
cid: 9478
uid: 58398
---



[ttaylor](../profile/ttaylor) replying to: [Inconsistent two cam ndvi](../notes/gpenzo/07-10-2014/inconsistant-two-cam-ndvi)

----
Interesting work indeed.  I have a few partly formed thoughts: 
1) since there is a thunderstorm, the illumination conditions are highly variable and transitory. It is very possible that the proportions the illumination in the different bands are very different from one image to the next, which could easily affect the NDVI
2) even supposing that the sky were clear, and emphasizing a little more Ned's comment about bidirectional reflectance: and taking a some wild estimates and guesses, if your latitude is 45 degrees north,  at 20:30 if the sky were clear the sun would be at about 11 degrees above the horizon. It looks like the bottom of your images are nearly straight down, while the top might be at 30 degrees from straight down. Thus the angle of reflection from the sun to the camera might vary between approximately 80 degrees to 50 degrees from top to bottom of the image.  Assuming that the crop is grain and mostly oriented vertically, this means that the image at the top of the screen would be closer to specular reflection and would be showing a greater proportion of unmodified incident light that at the bottom of the screen--more or less a weaker version of Ned's hot spot.  This might cause the top of the image to show a smaller NDVI.
3) The 850nm filter pushes your IR imaging to the low end of the sensitivity curve for the CCD/CMOS sensor. On the other hand, wheat and grass (and many other plants) have strong reflectivity from about 750nm-800nm to below 1000nm (for instance see http://thor.dmu.dk/1_viden/2_Publikationer/3_Ovrige/rapporter/Artikel6_anne_LAND.pdf).  You could get a larger biologically relevant response from the sensor with a 750 or 800nm filter, which might improve your NDVI.
