---
node: Question: any low light settings for web cam used in desktop spectrometry kit?
author: Henry0815
created_at: 2014-07-15 12:31:05 +0000
timestamp: 1405427465
nid: 10574
cid: 9507
uid: 424770
---



[Henry0815](../profile/Henry0815) replying to: [Question: any low light settings for web cam used in desktop spectrometry kit?](../notes/Henry0815/06-16-2014/question-lany-ow-light-settings-for-web-cam-used-in-desktop-spectrometry-kit)

----
Hi Jeffrey,
"Was there a reason you mostly used the green? A blue laser will excite a broader range of colors, since light can only excite colors at wavelengths longer than itself."

Green was used as an old habit and because the fluorescent protein tdTomato has its absorption maximum in the green. tdTomoato was used as the reporter gene in a soill bacterium which is currently researched as a biosensor for trace explosives to detect landmines from the air. Currently an EU research project "D-Box"  is acting as a follow up of that technology concept. 
My idea is to use fluorescent aptamer sensors and consumer electronics/smartphones/WiFi/NFC to build the electronic "mine detection dog" wihich unlike the real dog has stand off capability in landmine detection and would be much more affordable,  albeit less fun than the real dog.

"swapping in UV LEDs instead of a laser"
sounds good to me, I probably have to flood the cuvette with excitation light and use filters to get fluorescence detectable by the web cam.
Other possibilty would be lenses? more laser? more sensitive camera.

"Also can you share any of the spectra you did get? Links? Thanks!"
https://spectralworkbench.org/tag/laser%20pen%20405%20nm
https://spectralworkbench.org/analyze/spectrum/28509
https://spectralworkbench.org/tag/blue%20laser%20pen%20%20fluorescence%20in%20dog%20toy
the last link shows green fluorescence from a fluorescent ball excited with the blue laser pen. I was never able to detect the orange/red fluorescence from Atto - either because of alignment problems with the collimator slit or because the fluorescence disappeared within the background noise.
Also I need to adjust the focus of my web cam by moving it around inside the housing. When assembling the spectrometer I just guessed the best distance between camera and slit.
Thanks
Henry

