---
node: Can open source beat this?
author: btbonval
created_at: 2014-07-20 18:57:24 +0000
timestamp: 1405882644
nid: 10939
cid: 9560
uid: 43229
---



[btbonval](../profile/btbonval) replying to: [Can open source beat this?](../notes/cfastie/07-20-2014/can-open-source-beat-this)

----
Oh man, HOBOs. It's been awhile since I've had to use HOBO dataloggers. It sucks that they use a proprietary format.

"Open source" refers to software, whereas "open hardware" refers to the same concept with hardware. Unfortunately, while the open hardware community can make temperature and light sensors, the difficult engineering problem is ruggedizing the units for long term data collection. This is not something you'll usually find coming out of makerspaces or hackerspaces. Furthermore, for scientific data collection, meeting NIST standards is a must. I don't know any open hardware person who bothers with NIST. It costs a lot of money and takes a lot of engineering to ensure a device is NIST compliant. With HOBOs, you really are paying for that resilient case and electronics that have been endurance tested. In summary, yes we could make your sensor units, but no I don't think we'd be creating devices that are NIST-approved or rugged enough to withstand Alaskan winters without damage.

However, back in my day, we used to reverse engineer the HOBOs so that we could collect data from them without using the proprietary software. If you can put a HOBO datalogger in the hands of a few choice hackers, they might be able to get you software which can grab your data. The units will still be expensive, but you'll have more freedom to acquire the data if you can make your own connection.

The state of your HOBO units look very different from the ones we used to use. They used to have a standard 1/8th inch microphone cable into a special adapter to interface with a computer for some ungodly reason (proprietary hardware at its best).