---
cid: 9564
node: [Can open source beat this?](../notes/cfastie/07-20-2014/can-open-source-beat-this)
nid: 10939
created_at: 2014-07-21 00:59:36 +0000
timestamp: 1405904376
uid: 43229
author: [btbonval](../profile/btbonval)
---

Yeah the old HOBOs weren't very rugged, but that one in the image was one I remember using.

There are definitely temperature range issues with a lot of ICs. Generally speaking, microcontrollers in the popular markets aren't suited for extremes. However, a friend of mine has told me that AVR has milspec chips in deployment. So if you can find some AVRs that are milspec, you've got a start.

Waterproofing a system isn't necessarily all that is required. As the  devices cool, water vapor trapped inside can condense on your electronics. Even if it is okay once or twice, direct sunlight can potentially evaporate trapped water only to let it condense again in the evening, making water a moving target inside the device. Most of these mass produced things have some amount of air control systems in place as they are constructed so that if they come off the line watertight, little water vapor will make its way inside.

But when I worked at a place that used HOBOs, the real problem was NIST. We had people in our group that were making new sensors to be bid off by the government for mass production. I learned a lot about NIST compliance from those folks. When we did data collects, we had to use sensors which were guaranteed to hold up to NIST standards for measuring. This was for the government. I would be both surprised and annoyed if USGS decided NIST did not matter and accepted data collects from sensors that were not rigorously tested against gold standard devices and tested for the maximum useful ranges. No matter how good of an enclosure, scientific data for government studies should be collected by NIST compliant devices. As I said before, I have yet to see open hardware makers do anything but cobble together a minimum viable product. NIST compliance might as well be walking on the moon.

The other question is changing your data collection system in a long term data collect. If you've been using HOBOs for 15 years, even if the model has changed, you're at least being held to a similar QA standard from a single company which produces a well-known and well-trusted sensing device. Simply walking away from that could make the data uncomparable before and after the change.

[btbonval](../profile/btbonval) replying to: [Can open source beat this?](../notes/cfastie/07-20-2014/can-open-source-beat-this)

