---
cid: 9610
node: [Accessible procedure for calibrating conductivity measurements?](../notes/donblair/07-22-2014/accessible-procedure-for-calibrating-conductivity-measurements)
nid: 10949
created_at: 2014-07-23 22:20:54 +0000
timestamp: 1406154054
uid: 420189
author: [DavidMack](../profile/DavidMack)
---

seems like a good approach.  maybe specify the type of salt: fine sea salt, table salt (with iodine), kosher salt (no iodine), or Himalayan pink salt maybe (maybe not).  Not sure if it really makes a difference though.

I think it might be easier to work in increments of 2 cups, since a typical pyrex measuring cup is 2 cups (but maybe that's just me).  Every time one has to measure a cup I think that's added error. Also, it seems like your current procedure would require more than one gal of water.  I would try and keep it under 1 gal. total so people only need to buy one gal of distilled water.  You'll also need to account for some clean water to dunk the probe in between measuring standards as well.

Proceduraly, you'd probably want to start by dividing up the clean water into containers.  Then you add the salt and start splitting.  That would reduce cross contamination somewhat.  

if one had a digital scale, weighing the water rather than measuring in cups is a lot easier and more precise.  Likewise, if one had a small scale, weighing the salt would obviously be better too.  Another cheap tool for measuring out small quantities is a plastic syringe (without needle). Like another approach would be to make the high concentrate then spike each cup with the syringe (a.k.a. the poor man's pipette)


[DavidMack](../profile/DavidMack) replying to: [Accessible procedure for calibrating conductivity measurements?](../notes/donblair/07-22-2014/accessible-procedure-for-calibrating-conductivity-measurements)

