---
cid: 9618
node: [Accessible procedure for calibrating conductivity measurements?](../notes/donblair/07-22-2014/accessible-procedure-for-calibrating-conductivity-measurements)
nid: 10949
created_at: 2014-07-25 03:09:39 +0000
timestamp: 1406257779
uid: 425996
author: [WhiteRabbit](../profile/WhiteRabbit)
---

You'll probably need to correct for differences in sample temperature.

i.e. temperature will affect the conductivity of the salt solution.

So, to properly calibrate, you'll need not just your range of calibration solutions that you're planning to prepare, but (ideally) you'll datalog their measured values continuously over the entire temperature range you might ever encounter.  Then you'll most likely need to do a polynomial regression to formulate a correction formula so that your measurement can be standardized to a particular temperature (25C being a common reference temperature).  It's doable, but it can be rather time consuming to setup and properly execute and collect all the measurements.  To be extra safe, you should also measure the temperature of your 555 conductivity measuring instrument, and perhaps your battery voltage as well, and include that in the logged datasets you develop.  Frankly, anything which might affect your 555 instrument's measurements should be measured and logged during the calibration phase, as well as later.  Luckily, Microsoft Excel (or other software) can do the regression analysis for you once you have the data.

Sorry to be the messenger, but it's better for you to know early on what you might be facing rather than you get going and later wonder why your field measurements are strangely skewed, at which point it would be too late (after the fact) to measure your sample temperatures if you hadn't already done so.   I hope the above helps.  Maybe someone else here knows of a different/better way to do a proper calibration?

A short-cut alternative might be to bring your sample to your lab (if you are doing one-off measurements and not continuous measurements) and then bring both your sample and your 555 instrument to a standard, fixed temperature (that's why 25C is a convenient reference temperature) before measuring the conductivity.

Good luck, and please do let us know how it goes!

[WhiteRabbit](../profile/WhiteRabbit) replying to: [Accessible procedure for calibrating conductivity measurements?](../notes/donblair/07-22-2014/accessible-procedure-for-calibrating-conductivity-measurements)

