---
node: Detection of Added Sugar in Red Wine Using Visual Light Spectroscopy
author: straylight
created_at: 2014-07-25 03:30:21 +0000
timestamp: 1406259021
nid: 10955
cid: 9619
uid: 43047
---



[straylight](../profile/straylight) replying to: [Detection of Added Sugar in Red Wine Using Visual Light Spectroscopy](../notes/ygzstc/07-23-2014/detection-of-added-sugar-in-red-wine-using-visual-light-spectroscopy)

----
A rather nice exercise, well done. Quite surprising results I think, I would have predicted the extra sugar to have had minimal effect on the transmission of light through the wine. Your results suggest it is both detectable and predictable.

So why are you testing for extra sugar ? I know the Europeans sometimes add sugar to their grapes, but the sugar is then fermented into alcohol by the yeast, so there is usually no remaining sugar in a dry wine. Slightly different for some sweet white wines and fortified, which have residual sugar levels, but  you wouldn't expect to have to test for sugar in bottled red wine. Even if the grapes had been "boosted" the sugar is now long gone.

It would be interesting to see if the addition of extra acid to wine could be detected the same way. If you have time on your hands and want another experiment, maybe add tartaric acid in small amounts and see if you can detect the levels. Red wine might have around 8g/litre of tartaric acid (and other acids), so adding an extra 0.5g/L in steps up to 12g/L would be useful. While you are doing the spectroscopic analysis, taste the wine as well and see if you can put the glasses into increasing order of acidity :) We found the palate was quite discriminating. IIRC Euro wines aren't allowed to add extra acid, so that would be a useful test to have available.

well done again, I enjoyed reading about your work (and the Olive Oil analysis), I'd also suggest using a broad spectrum source rather than the CFL, but you already know that !. 

stu


