---
node: Can infragrams provide useful measurements of how thirsty my lawn is?
author: cfastie
created_at: 2014-07-26 02:57:19 +0000
timestamp: 1406343439
nid: 10969
cid: 9649
uid: 554
---



[cfastie](../profile/cfastie) replying to: [Can infragrams provide useful measurements of how thirsty my lawn is?](../notes/WhiteRabbit/07-25-2014/can-infragrams-provide-useful-measurements-of-thirsty-my-lawn-is)

----
It should be possible to distinguish between stressed and non-stressed lawn grass using NDVI. I suspect that the $900 FieldScout performs more or less as advertised. To get the precision required to differentiate subtle levels of stress, the data used to compute NDVI has to be collected carefully. But the required data is surprisingly simple. The FieldScout a) blocks all daylight from a section of grass, b) shines two lights on the grass (red and near infrared), and c) measures the proportion of each color light that is reflected by the grass back to sensors.  NDVI is basically the difference between the reflectance of red and reflectance of NIR.   

You can replicate this with the Public Lab spectrometer and some red and NIR LEDs in a box. This would be a fun project. Or you can look into the [PhotsynQ MultispeQ]( http://photosynq.org/) which operates like the FieldScout but also does even more clever things.   

Or you can use cameras to make an NDVI image of the entire lawn.  Having an image of the entire lawn is highly desirable compared to time-consuming individual measurements at a few to many places in the lawn.  But the jump to consumer cameras requires that the simple required data be approximated for each pixel of the image. Consumer cameras do not record reflectance of narrow bands of wavelengths; they record some massaged measure of brightness of broad bands of wavelengths.  And consumer cameras do not control or record the quality of the incoming light; we want to make our NDVI images any time of day regardless of sky conditions.  So NDVI systems based on consumer cameras produce rather crude approximations of NDVI that are difficult to repeat and difficult to relate to other measures of NDVI.  

If I wanted to detect the development of stress in my lawn, here is what I would do.

1. Make a two camera system, e.g., from two PowerShots. A camera dedicated to capturing only NIR will produce a pure NIR photo (use a real NIR filter like Wratten 87, 87B, or 87C that pass no visible light). An unmodified camera will produce a photo with a red channel that is mostly red with very little NIR. A single camera system can never capture both pure red and pure NIR.  It is also possible to place a red band pass filter on the unmodified camera to narrow the band of red light captured. This will require a longer exposure, but the grass won’t be moving fast.
2. Install the cameras permanently where they can capture matching images of the lawn every day from the exact same angle. 
3. Take photos with both cameras at the same time every day. Or better, take the photo pairs every half hour to increase the likelihood that you will have one pair per day from long sequences of days that are taken under similar atmospheric conditions at the same time of day.

The photo pairs can be aligned using Ned’s Fiji plugin and NDVI can be computed for every pixel. A color image can be produced, but to detect subtle changes in NDVI, the actual values will have to be compared. The color tables typically used for pretty NDVI images assign almost the same color to NDVI values between, e.g., 0.3 and 0.5. So the real values for one or more small patches of lawn will have to averaged and compared over a sequence of days or weeks to detect trends.  

Or you can try to do this with an Infragram webcam. I have not seen very promising NDVI results from CMOS webcams, but I have never heard of anyone trying a red filter instead of a blue filter.  The wavelength bands of interest will be contaminated with non-target wavelengths, but I really don't know what effect that will have on interpretation of the NDVI values. Webcams generally do not allow custom white balance, so some post-processing will probably be required to adjust the relative brightness of the red and blue channels. Another option might be the Mobius Actioncam which can operate in webcam mode, allows custom white balance settings, and works well with a Wratten 25A red filter.  If I wanted to build an automated system based on webcam images or video, I might try a two camera webcam system. Optically this would be similar to the dual camera system described above, but would allow computer control and automatic processing of the images.  

Or you can do what I do and just water the damn lawn when it needs it. 

Chris