---
cid: 9650
node: [Can infragrams provide useful measurements of how thirsty my lawn is?](../notes/WhiteRabbit/07-25-2014/can-infragrams-provide-useful-measurements-of-thirsty-my-lawn-is)
nid: 10969
created_at: 2014-07-26 16:38:47 +0000
timestamp: 1406392727
uid: 425996
author: [WhiteRabbit](../profile/WhiteRabbit)
---

Thanks, Chris, for your thoughtful and very informative post.

If I'm reading it right, perhaps using two monochrome cameras, each with the appropriate filter setup, might work best?  That way you're not fighting against the filtering properties of the color mask (bayer pattern) that's built into a color imaging chip:  http://www.red.com/learn/red-101/color-monochrome-camera-sensors.  Unfortunately though,  unless someone here has done it already or something similar with good results, it would put me back at square one in terms of finding a candidate monochrome camera to use for that purpose.

On the other hand,  I suppose that if you had a filter wheel with spectrogram filters  in front of  such a monochrome camera, you could even agregate an image where every pixel is effectively a spectrogram in its own right.  Overkill for this application, but kinda interesting if you wanted to maximize data collection. It would also offer more opportunities to extract signals of interest that I haven't yet learned about, and so it might have more long-term value than a one-off device.  It could be a poor man's multispectral camera, possibly going from UV into different bands of near infrared.  When you count them up, it wouldn't have to be all that many.  Anyone happen to know whether sufficiently narrow bandwidth filters could be obtained cheaply, perhaps as gels or something?  Seems like it wouldn't be hard to automate turning the wheel and collecting a series of shots through the filters, at least on cloudless sunny days.

[WhiteRabbit](../profile/WhiteRabbit) replying to: [Can infragrams provide useful measurements of how thirsty my lawn is?](../notes/WhiteRabbit/07-25-2014/can-infragrams-provide-useful-measurements-of-thirsty-my-lawn-is)

