---
node: Can infragrams provide useful measurements of how thirsty my lawn is?
author: WhiteRabbit
created_at: 2014-07-26 20:55:39 +0000
timestamp: 1406408139
nid: 10969
cid: 9657
uid: 425996
---



[WhiteRabbit](../profile/WhiteRabbit) replying to: [Can infragrams provide useful measurements of how thirsty my lawn is?](../notes/WhiteRabbit/07-25-2014/can-infragrams-provide-useful-measurements-of-thirsty-my-lawn-is)

----
Cool!  Awesome post.

I suppose it's wishful (and probably foolish) thinking, but given the the low price of a filter swatch book and the seemingly large selection it contains, is there any chance it might contain some sufficiently narrow band filters that would be usable in a filter wheel?  Anyone know?

Consider, for example, a Lee swatchbook:  http://www.ebay.com/itm/Lee-Filters-Swatch-Book-Designers-Edition-/291180478729?pt=Camera_Filters&hash=item43cbb58109

or a Rosco swatchbook:  http://www.ebay.com/itm/Roscolux-Swatchbook-WITH-EXPANDED-COLOR-SET-/251456651639?pt=US_Gobos_Gels_Filters_Lenses&hash=item3a8bfc0177

It looks as though they come with transmission graphs for each of the gels.  I don't happen to have a swatchbook, so I can't see what they are.  Maybe someone here has one and knows the answer (or could look)?

I picked these swatch books at random, so maybe there exists a better swatch book more appropriate to the task at hand that could be scavenged and that's still low priced (with delivery around $7- $10 for the swatchbooks above).

Anyhow, if there's a better way to get inexpensive filters, I'm open to it.  Likewise, if there's opinion that inexpensive filters just aren't good enough for use in a filter wheel, then I'll cross them off my consideration list.

I'm not optimistic a swatchbook would have usable UV or IR filters, but if filters in the visible range could be scavenged at low cost from a swatch book, it leaves more budget for getting decent UV and IR filters.  If nothing else, it might yield a workable proof of concept.

I realize I'm figuratively waiving my hands a bit, but using an Arduino to turn a servo so as to move a filter wheel from one filter to the next would seem to be fairly basic.  The harder part might be keeping unfiltered light from finding its way around the filter and into the camera lens via a backdoor.   

