---
cid: 9777
node: [Aerial Mapping Drone for Under $60? ](../notes/code4maine/08-05-2014/aerial-mapping-drone-for-under-60)
nid: 11015
created_at: 2014-08-06 00:11:10 +0000
timestamp: 1407283870
uid: 294634
author: [ajawitz](../profile/ajawitz)
---

I'm still making my way through the Multiwii configuration to make sure I've got all the connections right.  MW is an interesting concept.  Its basically just a single Arduino sketch with just about every possible configuration commented out in the setup header.  In my case I only had to uncomment out //#nanowii and //#flyingwing to set the basic parameters.  Unfortunately, documentation for MW is notoriously tough to navigate so I still need to confirm I'm making the right servo connections before it should be ready for RX/TX binding and finally... flight!
  This particular design is well proven and people often use 30 inch foam flying wings for FPV with a GoPro and a big heavy battery up front, so I know they can handle a lot.  The overall weight all comes down to how well you balance the Center of Gravity, so Delta Kite flyers should feel right at home with flying wings. I even considered using one of my old Delta's as the airframe but I couldn't find a way to add controllable elevators. 

As for my own build?... I'll be happy just to get off the ground...  My manual airfoil sculpting job doesn't instill me with a lot of confidence, but there's only one way to find out I guess...  I'm planning on using a different design based around the wings of a cheap foam glider toy for my actual photomapping vehicle.  It does add about $10 to the total price tag but a smooth airfoil might be worth it.

[ajawitz](../profile/ajawitz) replying to: [Aerial Mapping Drone for Under $60? ](../notes/code4maine/08-05-2014/aerial-mapping-drone-for-under-60)

