---
cid: 9796
node: [Recap: July 31 New Orleans oil testing meetup](../notes/stevie/08-01-2014/recap-july-31-new-orleans-oil-testing-meetup)
nid: 11005
created_at: 2014-08-07 16:30:44 +0000
timestamp: 1407429044
uid: 379
author: [eustatic](../profile/eustatic)
---

I think Stevie asked people to bring laptops

we had 3-4 working desktop spec, set up at tables 3 and 4 (one laptop wouldn't work) 
jeff's phone spec
lots of bags of nail polish jars at "collect" table, extra mineral oil (we had wanted other solvents, like ethanol, but ran out of time) 
3-4 uv lasers
a couple of done up boxes for the aforementioned desktop specs
tons of markers and labels and scrap paper
post its at each table, markers at each table

1) a few kits and lots of paper specs at the 1st table, and scissors, cutting plastic and razor knives.  i think there was also elmer's glue

2) many sample "cuvettes", post its, Qtips, other jars at 2nd table
spare mineral oil from the store
paper towels
a uv laser here
previously made samples of tar ball at different concentrations (grand isle coffee)
brake fluid sample
coal sample
jeff's set of crude oil samples (very key) 
veg oil samples at different concentrations

3) two laptops and two desktop specs, one or two boxes to close around the specs and a couple of UV lasers
sunchips bag was re-purposed for reflectance.  
here, jeff compared the response to his phone spec to desktop spec

4) two laptops and two desktop specs, no boxes.  we did a bunch of calibrating a messing with laptop cameras and software here, but didn't do a lot of comparing

I brought my own laptop and made a kit from the desktop spec (version 1, old camera) box.  i made a new grand isle coffee sample (just one drop of the 1x grand isle coffee in the nailpolish cuvette) and it fluoresced just great but i couldn't get the light intense enough to capture it in SW.  i then spent time with the razor knife and tried to make the slit wider on my desktop spec to capture more light. 

so i was able to rotate around the stations and grab items as needed. 

I think if we had done a bunch of comparing, a projector would have been useful to show people what was happening on spectral workbench. 

[eustatic](../profile/eustatic) replying to: [Recap: July 31 New Orleans oil testing meetup](../notes/stevie/08-01-2014/recap-july-31-new-orleans-oil-testing-meetup)

