---
node: MapKnitter Annotations: Interface Refactoring
author: justinmanley
created_at: 2014-08-08 00:51:42 +0000
timestamp: 1407459102
nid: 11019
cid: 9812
uid: 421556
---



[justinmanley](../profile/justinmanley) replying to: [MapKnitter Annotations: Interface Refactoring](../notes/justinmanley/08-06-2014/mapknitter-annotations-interface-refactoring)

----
Jeff - I *have* given some thought to edit history.  I think that will be a somewhat substantial upgrade, so it may be outside the scope of my project (although I may post a research note soon w/ some of my thoughts on implementing this).  I think something that will mitigate the phenomenon of inexperienced users messing up maps that others have made is simply by providing a range of map editing permissions.

This should be simpler to implement than complete edit history - just allow users to set the permissions for each map that they create to 'self' (only the owner can edit), 'everyone', or 'whitelist', to only allow users specified by the owner to edit the map.  We can decide what the default should be.

I don't think that interjecting an additional screen does much to protect carefully constructed maps from careless interference.  As a casual user, I have been worried more than once when I clicked to open a recently created map, dragged the corner handles around a bit, and then noticed (to my chagrin) that the map had been automatically saved.

I have been developing the new interface with separate controller, model, and views accessible via a `/beta` prefix to the URL as you suggested.  Once I finish the database migrations to add support for new fields, I will submit a PR to allow folks to beta-test.

Liz - I think that any user should be able to annotate a map, regardless of what the editing permissions are on the map.  This includes modifying and/or deleting existing annotations.  Is this what you mean by editable?