---
cid: 9816
node: [MapKnitter Annotations: Interface Refactoring](../notes/justinmanley/08-06-2014/mapknitter-annotations-interface-refactoring)
nid: 11019
created_at: 2014-08-08 15:18:24 +0000
timestamp: 1407511104
uid: 1
author: [warren](../profile/warren)
---

> protect carefully constructed maps from careless interference

agreed - it was a relatively crude way to do this and there are better means, for sure. It was also, however, a sort of "first step" towareds creating a clean Leaflet-based version. But mostly it was just the result of many iterative changes over a long period of time without a 'master plan' - and I encourage you to change it! 

re: edit history, an edit history can be a more permissive environment, the idea being that maps are default-editable, unless there's a strong reason to close them off. Edit history can make that sustainable rather than limiting access/permissions from the outset. I do think there is a rudimentary edit lock feature and there is value in a better version of that too, but I'd be reluctant for it to be the default. 

awesome re: `/beta`

also, in keeping with the shift towards simply showing everything and not culling by map_id, author-based permissions on a per-image basis and per-annotation basis would be preferable to map-based permissions. Currently annotations don't 'belong to' a map, actually, which was the first step towards that paradigm. Eventually we'd like it if the moment you select a set of annotations or images is at export time, not from the outset. Maps would become more like "views" to one giant shared map, which is really sorted via location and perhaps time (like, we could have options to show only images/annotations you created, or that were made in a given time period). But that's also kind of a bigger project, so I wouldn't worry too much about it now. 

[warren](../profile/warren) replying to: [MapKnitter Annotations: Interface Refactoring](../notes/justinmanley/08-06-2014/mapknitter-annotations-interface-refactoring)

