---
node: MapKnitter Annotations: Interface Refactoring
author: mathew
created_at: 2014-08-08 19:00:01 +0000
timestamp: 1407524401
nid: 11019
cid: 9824
uid: 4
---



[mathew](../profile/mathew) replying to: [MapKnitter Annotations: Interface Refactoring](../notes/justinmanley/08-06-2014/mapknitter-annotations-interface-refactoring)

----
I really dig the sidebar concept, full screen map, and loading straight to the edit screen!

I agree with Liz, this differs from a Wiki in the crucial respect that we are seeking to display mostly local knowledge of the map-- not every internet user is therefore of equal standing in regards to edits.  The "locked, open, or whitelist" options seem to solve this issue. 

[@warren](/profile/warren) We might want to make the edit functions all load locked by default, not permission locked, just edit locked, and unlockable with a simple one-click toggle.  Especially on older computers it can be easy to click and drag something accidentally while trying to scroll through.  We don't want the interface to be a scary place of accidental changes for casual viewers.  The current mapknitter is such a place. 

THoughts on handling multiple editors-- What about a "fork" and "overlay" options--
I, the original mapmaker, make a map, and unless I set open permissions or whitelist other contributors, someone else would have to fork my map to add their own changes, or maybe just fork the annotations.  We could then list the annotation forks and give the option of switching between them or adding them.  Only the original author or whitelist editors could pull forks back to the default layer.   I'm not sure if this would get messy in implementation or lead to doubled annotations. 
