---
cid: 9834
node: [MapKnitter Annotations: Interface Refactoring](../notes/justinmanley/08-06-2014/mapknitter-annotations-interface-refactoring)
nid: 11019
created_at: 2014-08-08 21:06:28 +0000
timestamp: 1407531988
uid: 421556
author: [justinmanley](../profile/justinmanley)
---

It seems like everyone is not on the same page re: Jeff's vision for the future of MapKnitter.  Mathew: as I understand it , Jeff is proposing that, in the future, the default view should be a "supermap" (your words) of all of the photo sets for a given location.

It seems to me that, over time, this "supermap" is going to become *extremely* cluttered.  I think that one way of solving this (and perhaps also solving the annotations headache that Mathew mentioned) is to only show the past year (or past six or nine or three months) of images and annotations, and allow the user to view a different time span via a slider that they can scrub back and forth.

I was going to post about map image edit history in a separate research note, but I think it would be better to continue the conversation here: 

I'm not sure how uploaded images are stored now, but I think that, in order to enable full-featured editing history (including the ability to rollback arbitrary sequences of changes), an ideal setup would be:

* Store all images on the server at the time that they are uploaded
* Represent all transformations to the images in a compact JSON object
* Each time a change is made, push a new JSON object into the database.
* When a user requests a map, send them the *raw* images AND the most recent JSON for each image and apply the transformations in the browser, on the client-side.

This means that, to rollback changes, all we would need to do is retrieve the appropriate JSON entry and push it to the database.

Finally: Regarding Jeff's idea that the default view should be a "supermap" with all image sets around a given area.  I think we may want to introduce a slightly modified nomenclature.  I propose:

* Mathew's "supermap" will just be called "the map" - this will have ALL of the uploaded images.
* What we currently think of as a "map" or "photo set" will be called a "patch".  I think this is a much more apt description for what MapKnitter users create, anyway.

Technical note: In order to keep the map running quickly, we'll need to only download images as the user's activity (panning, zooming) brings them into view.  But this shouldn't be too hard with Leaflet.

[justinmanley](../profile/justinmanley) replying to: [MapKnitter Annotations: Interface Refactoring](../notes/justinmanley/08-06-2014/mapknitter-annotations-interface-refactoring)

