---
cid: 9846
node: [Wratten 25 and NDVI A1200 imagery from TerrAvion fly-along](../notes/patcoyle/08-08-2014/wratten-25-and-ndvi-a1200-imagery-from-terravion-fly-along)
nid: 11024
created_at: 2014-08-09 02:24:54 +0000
timestamp: 1407551094
uid: 554
author: [cfastie](../profile/cfastie)
---

Great application. I assume your camera but not you got to go in the plane? How was the camera triggered?  Was it mounted on the plane? What was the elevation?

It looks like you locked shutter speed at 1/800 second at ISO 80 and the shots were taken with the aperture all the way open (good choice).

I looked at the eight Wratten 25 photos at Mapknitter. Each one is blurrier on the right side than on the left side. Is this the case with all photos taken by this camera? If so, it might be that the sensor is out of alignment after the conversion. Adjusting those three screws that hold the sensor plate could fix that. I just converted an A1200. It was so easy to open and close that I did it 10 times, each time making fine adjustments to one or more of those final screws. Between adjustments I took a few photos of a distant scene and checked the focus. My last adjustments were tiny turns of one screw. I did not replace the four screws on the outside of the camera each time, just snapped the back cover on between adjustments. So there are only two screws (that hold the LCD) to remove in order to access the sensor screws (and no ribbon cables to unplug). It takes only three minutes to get in and out. The final screw positions were not screwed in quite as far as when they were still glued (about 1/5 of a turn). That could vary depending on what filter replaced the IR block filter. 

[cfastie](../profile/cfastie) replying to: [Wratten 25 and NDVI A1200 imagery from TerrAvion fly-along](../notes/patcoyle/08-08-2014/wratten-25-and-ndvi-a1200-imagery-from-terravion-fly-along)

