---
node: Aerial Mapping Drone for Under $60? 
author: cfastie
created_at: 2014-08-09 03:34:37 +0000
timestamp: 1407555277
nid: 11015
cid: 9847
uid: 554
---



[cfastie](../profile/cfastie) replying to: [Aerial Mapping Drone for Under $60? ](../notes/code4maine/08-05-2014/aerial-mapping-drone-for-under-60)

----
 >only insofar as the time and resources required don't detract from the larger project.

That is certainly key. The tools should lower the barriers to participation and action. On the other hand, lots of members of the Public Lab community spends lots of time trying to get aerial photos, NDVI images, or spectra. A few critical suggestions about ways to improve the equipment or technique could go a long way toward making the results more useful and keeping those people involved longer.  It's a lost opportunity when someone is discouraged by poor results. A critical function of a group like Public Lab should be to transfer information about ways to get worthwhile results to the people trying to get them. There is lots of knowledge in the Public Lab Community, and lots of people in need of that knowledge. I cringe every time I see an aerial photo of the inside of a soda bottle or an NDVI image that's all the same color. I see a continuing stream of those disappointing results, which suggests that there are a lot more of them that nobody ever sees. The Public Lab community should work hard to reduce those potential disappointments. 

Entry level tools have been the strength of Public Lab, but an easy upgrade path should also be available. Public Lab should be known as the source of information about getting quality results, not minimal results. When appropriate, I will always encourage people to use better equipment and techniques, and I am prepared to explain how those upgrades are likely to produce more useful and actionable results. Generally, the answer is that mediocrity rarely slays the giant.
