---
node: Sky Cam Enhancement; In-App User guide + App icon added
author: warren
created_at: 2014-08-11 18:22:18 +0000
timestamp: 1407781338
nid: 11028
cid: 9866
uid: 1
---



[warren](../profile/warren) replying to: [Sky Cam Enhancement; In-App User guide + App icon added](../notes/mercyorangi/08-10-2014/sky-cam-enhancement-user-guide-app-icon-added)

----
Hi, Mercy - Cool! It installed fine for me on a Nexus 5.

A few comments:

* What is "threshold value" -- is it how much the camera can be moving for it to take a photo? A tiny bit more info on that menu would be great. Ah, - i see it's in the guide, but maybe even saying "see guide" in the menu itself would be helpful?
* Is the "s" necessary in the Time Period setting?
* can we put a fake email in the email id field? I don't think we want to distribute Mohit's email to everyone :-)
* also the emails say "Mercy's Email" -- maybe we say "Photo from Sky Camera"?
* can the "source code" link to go https://github.com/publiclab/sky-camera ?
* the longitude and latitude are oddly formatted -- they seem almost right but: `Latitude: 42/1,23/1,13321/1000 Longitude -71/1,-5/1,-33608/1000` I am at something close to 42 latitude, -71 longitude, but the slashes are weird?
* where do the photos get saved? I don't see them in my photo album; maybe we should tell the user where they are saved once you press "Stop"? Ah, i see they're in "SkyCameraFolder" - we should say that.
* I also noticed that when I shook the phone, and it was blurry, photos did not take, which is great -- it's supposed to not take blurry photos. But there was no indication to the user that the photo did not save -- maybe we can show a notification that says "Photo saved" or "Photo discarded -- too much motion"?