---
node: Research Note Workflows
author: walkerjeffd
created_at: 2014-08-11 21:12:32 +0000
timestamp: 1407791552
nid: 11035
cid: 9877
uid: 422528
---



[walkerjeffd](../profile/walkerjeffd) replying to: [Research Note Workflows](../notes/donblair/08-11-2014/research-note-workflows)

----
Just wanted to chime in on a few these topics:

**iframes**: i normally never use them because they're frowned upon, but in this case it seemed to make sense. i'm not familiar with the issues when using SSL but I can imagine there being some. Though, I wonder whether github pages would work if the iframe is done through ssl also. Not sure, but when you roll out SSL we can see what happens.

**md document**: with RStudio, I am indeed generating a markdown document as well as an html document ([example](https://github.com/walkerjeffd/riffle-ito-apps/tree/master/analyses/20140807_kayak) that has index.Rmd (source code that I write), index.md (which is generated by Rstudio), index.html (which is generated from index.md using Pandoc)).   

**images**: the first iteration of this process involved pulling the markdown directly from github and rendering in the client: see it [here](http://walkerjeffd.github.io/test-repo/embed-md/) which was just a simple test to see if you could do the client-side rendering using the marked.js library (which PL uses for previewing notes and comments). The issue with that was the images. With markdown, the images and figures are referenced to a png file in the repo, so I had to change any img src to use the correct repo. BUT with the [html-generated file](http://walkerjeffd.github.io/riffle-ito-apps/analyses/20140807_kayak/index.html), the images are actually embedded in the html document in base 64, so there are no external dependencies (I think this may be done by pandoc). Take a look at the source for that file and you'll see the images embedded near the top. So anyway, dealing with images when rendering markdown in the client would be a potentially significant issue (which is why iframe seemed so awesome).

Mathjax: yes, please. i think its universal enough to include in the PL templates. if you were concerned about avoiding unnecessary scripts (e.g. a research note that does not have equations should not require mathjax to be loaded) then i was thinking maybe you could have a checkbox for a note to specify that mathjax be included, and then include it when rendering the template on the server if necessary. would add another field to your data model, but would allow people to only include mathjax if necessary. 

PDF: that's possible, but I don't really like that idea (sorry don). 

And if you didn't see it, I also tried embedding an interactive shiny app using an iframe: http://publiclab.org/notes/walkerjeffd/08-11-2014/embedded-shiny-app . That is a just a demo without any explanation of what it is, but I think it really opens the door to a lot of interesting types of research notes. That app I made for just me and Don to better understand the relationship between a 555 timer frequency and the conductivity of water (and then do some curve fitting to calibrate). but i think being able to include interactive visualizations and apps would be a nice addition to the PL ecosystem.

So it seems to me that there are two main questions: 1) are there any security vulnerabilities in the PL system by allowing authors to embed external pages using an iframe, 2) would iframe work with SSL. 

If the answers are 1) no, 2) yes then this seems like a pretty good approach to me. Trying to scrape and render markdown from github has all kinds of complications (images, js dependencies, etc.), so this seems much simpler and just works. 
