---
cid: 9878
node: [Map showing where you can and can't fly drones](../notes/code4maine/08-11-2014/map-showing-where-you-can-and-can-t-fly-drones)
nid: 11032
created_at: 2014-08-11 21:24:28 +0000
timestamp: 1407792268
uid: 379
author: [eustatic](../profile/eustatic)
---

not sure about kites.  pretty sure there isn't anything written specifically about kites or balloons, but I would imagine they can find some rule to put hurt on you if cheese them off.

U.S. Homeland Security Regs (federal) say:

no taking pictures of 

1) nuclear facilities, unless you have a permit  (one public lab group did this)
2) military bases where the commanding officer has declared no pictures shall be taken

but that's for taking pictures. and in practice, industrial facilities have security protocols in place that label anyone taking pictures of their facilities "suspicious persons," and the sheriff is called.

So don't cheese off the sheriff! If the sheriff decides that you are a "threat to public safety" the sheriff can detain you for a certain period of time. Or, in the united states, if you are black, apparently all bets are off.    RIP Michael Brown, today. I would imagine the same thing applies to the US military if you look like an arab. I mean, I'm kind of joking, but not. The facility gets to decide what they think a "suspicious person" is. So whatever that is, don't be that.

If you need to take pictures of facilities, I would at least have a lawyer and someone to bail you out, and wear little american flags on your lapel.   I always carry my business card on me if suspiciousness may be laid upon me, so the sheriff knows that it's official business.  

[eustatic](../profile/eustatic) replying to: [Map showing where you can and can't fly drones](../notes/code4maine/08-11-2014/map-showing-where-you-can-and-can-t-fly-drones)

