---
cid: 9880
node: [Research Note Workflows](../notes/donblair/08-11-2014/research-note-workflows)
nid: 11035
created_at: 2014-08-11 21:30:40 +0000
timestamp: 1407792640
uid: 43229
author: [btbonval](../profile/btbonval)
---

[@walkerjeffd](/profile/walkerjeffd),

Another issue with iframes is spam detection.

Right now there is a small cadre of folks who get every. single. research. note. ever. Including myself. It comes into the inbox and we can check it out, be all like "yeah, looks good" or "no, we don't need you selling watches on our site."

iframes would obfuscate that such that spam moderators would need to visit each and every research note to check on the iframe contents, as emailing a full render (including iframe contents) is not really going to happen.

mathjax: submit an issue ;)  I think there is already an issue for LaTeX math somewhere, but I believe it got relegated to "so many choices to render, deal with it later" or something? That might be my imagination.

I think [@donblair](/profile/donblair) brings up an interesting point about open data and open research. Rather than importing content into Public Lab, I think it would make far more sense to export data out of publiclab. The public lab research note interface is a tool for generating notes in the first place. Once the note is created, in theory, there's no reason it ought to be hosted on publiclab or anywhere else.

If we want to discuss a federated content delivery network and protocols for doing so, I think that would be a fantastically fun thing to do. If we came up with a portable research note that was something like OpenID, then PublicLab could produce that content (using its tools) and potentially (with a whitelist or something) consume such content for display. What Don is talking about is separating tools, content, and publication. Larger questions are how to make portable documents maintain authorship and so much more. Huge huge problem space. You can look up FreeNet, Diaspora, Mozilla OBI, OpenID, OAuth, and some other federated protocols to start seeing different ways bits and pieces of the problem have been addressed.

[btbonval](../profile/btbonval) replying to: [Research Note Workflows](../notes/donblair/08-11-2014/research-note-workflows)

