---
cid: 9885
node: [Research Note Workflows](../notes/donblair/08-11-2014/research-note-workflows)
nid: 11035
created_at: 2014-08-11 22:00:46 +0000
timestamp: 1407794446
uid: 422528
author: [walkerjeffd](../profile/walkerjeffd)
---

[@btbonval](/profile/btbonval),

mathjax: yup, we filed an issue on that already. Don called it 'latex equations' but we meant mathjax support.

iframes: yeah i certainly recognize all the cross-site vulnerabilities and issues. i tend to look on that as being the browser's responsibility, but we'll see how things develop. 

spam: i can see that as being an issue. but it also seems like that approach is not too scalable. if PL grew to the point of having hundreds of notes per day (i'm not sure how many you get now), then that would get burdensome. maybe you could add a "Flag as inappropriate/spam" button to notes to alert the admins of potential spam? and let the community take on more of a moderator role?

CDN/open research: i think we have a differing view here. i would much rather push notes into public lab, than write them in public lab to pull out (hence the whole rmarkdown-based workflow where i effectively write the note in RStudio and then bring the resulting html into PL's system). for some things that do not involve coding, writing a note in PL makes sense. But as soon as your running code to generate figures, having to copy and paste into the PL editor is a rather significant burden (especially if I want to update something, which I would probably do about 10-20 times for each analysis). Some of my recent analyses that have not been posted yet on PL are rather lengthy and having to copy and paste the code and add the figures would be somewhat of a deterrent. I view the value of the PL system is in its community, and I want to be able to share my analyses with the community. But for notes involving code, I pretty much have to generate that code outside of PL and then push it in somehow. Copy and paste is basically not an option for what I'm doing, but there are certainly other ways we can come up with that don't involve iframes. 

One thought I had is if PL had a REST API for the notes. So I could create/update a note from outside PL. Then I could use a git hook to automatically update the markdown for a specific note every time I commit. That would solve the server-load issue of updating the content (only when I do so via the API instead of on every read).  But there would still be an issue with external images and how to deal with that.


[walkerjeffd](../profile/walkerjeffd) replying to: [Research Note Workflows](../notes/donblair/08-11-2014/research-note-workflows)

