---
cid: 9887
node: [Research Note Workflows](../notes/donblair/08-11-2014/research-note-workflows)
nid: 11035
created_at: 2014-08-11 22:07:08 +0000
timestamp: 1407794828
uid: 43229
author: [btbonval](../profile/btbonval)
---

[@walkerjeffd](/profile/walkerjeffd)

So what can convince you not to use iframes? Just curious. It seems like none of the general practices or advice are good enough?

My point about browsers was exactly that it is their responsibility, and outside of our control. Well meaning sites and things get broken when the browsers make decisions like "start blocking all this content." Have you ever tried linking HTTP image from an HTTPS site? It's well meaning, but the browser says no, and you see no image. I see iframes falling into that category faster and faster. You think it works, and it does, then one day, it does not. It isn't a long term approach.

You missed the separation between content, publication, and tools. Right now, PublicLab is all three. People use PL tools to create PL content and publish it on PL. What you want is to use other tools and other content published on PL. What we need to do is split these interests up. The first and easiest task would be using PL tools to create PL content, and making that PL content extremely portable. Importing it is a can of worms, as this entire thread has noted. If PL is to become a content publisher for content that is not PL hosted: can of worms. The answer is not iframe. The answer is an appropriate federated content publication network, of which public lab becomes one such node, and through which you may publish your non-PL content. Look at the federated services I noted and read them over, please. There is a lot of good stuff in there. What you want is not what Public Lab currently offers, and in fact, NO web service currently offers. We'd have to create something completely new.

[btbonval](../profile/btbonval) replying to: [Research Note Workflows](../notes/donblair/08-11-2014/research-note-workflows)

