---
cid: 9896
node: [Research Note Workflows](../notes/donblair/08-11-2014/research-note-workflows)
nid: 11035
created_at: 2014-08-11 23:24:05 +0000
timestamp: 1407799445
uid: 43651
author: [donblair](../profile/donblair)
---

Wow, thriving conversation here!  Looking forward to trying to thrash this through ... maybe we could even do a Hangout to chat about the various approaches ... 

> You missed the separation between content, publication, and tools. Right now, PublicLab is all three. People use PL tools to create PL content and publish it on PL. What you want is to use other tools and other content published on PL. 

[@btbonval](/profile/btbonval):  

I do see your point here:  it's much simpler to develop and manage a 'closed ecosystem' -- using the PL editor to create content that is hosted on PL.  I see how this makes dealing with security issues, spam, formatting issues, and legal issues re: content ownership much easier.  And I see how opening up this ecosystem to allow e.g. content generated using external tools to be published on PL does start to create problems.  

(Aside: I love the idea of the federated content network you're describing, and I'd love to push towards that vision, going forward.)

For now, though, I guess the issue we were running into was that certain types of research note content seemed easier to produce, edit, and manage using tools that are external to Public Lab -- in this case, research notes that had reached a certain level of complexity. 

I see this proposed 'embedded content' idea we're floating as quite similar to (and perhaps, in its use of 'iframes', technically identical to?) the standard practice of embedding a Youtube video in a research note.  Certainly, embedding external content in this manner has its risks (as you point out, if Youtube goes away, or the URL changes, then the content is not longer available on publiclab.org; embedded video could easily be a source of very-hard-to-screen spam content injection; there are licensing issues) -- but those risks seem so far to have been outweighed by the benefit of being able easily to incorporate video on publiclab.org.  

For the time being, does embedding HTML (using 'iframe') or sourcing markdown from github in research notes seem much riskier / more complex to you than this practice of embedding Youtube videos in research notes (using 'iframe')?  It seems to me that if it's useful for now, and if it requires no extra effort on the part of the development team (for now -- though I guess spam could change that), and if the risks are quite low, then there's not much harm in trying it, for now?  

If, however, the embedded / import solutions do seem too risky / onerous, then I guess we could always simply just take the route of writing a brief research note 'wrapper' around the 'longer article' that we're hosting on github, and simply linking to this external article in the research note ... 

[donblair](../profile/donblair) replying to: [Research Note Workflows](../notes/donblair/08-11-2014/research-note-workflows)

