---
cid: 9898
node: [Research Note Workflows](../notes/donblair/08-11-2014/research-note-workflows)
nid: 11035
created_at: 2014-08-11 23:38:49 +0000
timestamp: 1407800329
uid: 421037
author: [bgamari](../profile/bgamari)
---

If there were interest in generalizing the research note mechanism a bit here is an interesting idea that popped into my head as I was reading this:

Currently a research note is simply a Markdown file and some attachments with editing taking place through the web interface. I envision the backend being reworked to keep each research note in a standalone version control (e.g. git) repository. The primary text would be in a `note.mkd` file with other attachments in a directory. The web frontend would not change although edits would produce commits in the backend.

However, in addition to the web frontend one could also clone the repository (e.g. `git@publiclab.org:notes/donblair/research-note-workflows`) for local editing. This would allow "research notes" to become closer to "research units", allowing one to include scripts, small data, notes, and results when appropriate in the repository for others' reference. You might even include a JSON file containing the note's metadata. You'd probably want some push hooks to ensure that the integrity of the note (e.g. the existence and well-formedness of the Markdown) are preserved in pushed commits.

While this proposal doesn't really address the problems of melding code and other associated content into notes, it might bring us closer to being able to view research notes as packages of content instead of just text (which is where I think the current research publishing system falls short). Also, the proposal admittedly comes a bit close to turning PL into a Github-like service, complete with the high storage requirements and fairly non-trivial backend logic that this entails, as [@btbonval](/profile/btbonval) has mentioned.

That being said, I like the idea of building on top of existing tools when possible and it does seem like research notes deserve real version control.

[bgamari](../profile/bgamari) replying to: [Research Note Workflows](../notes/donblair/08-11-2014/research-note-workflows)

