---
node: Research Note Workflows
author: cfastie
created_at: 2014-08-12 00:23:24 +0000
timestamp: 1407803004
nid: 11035
cid: 9904
uid: 554
---



[cfastie](../profile/cfastie) replying to: [Research Note Workflows](../notes/donblair/08-11-2014/research-note-workflows)

----
>writing a brief research note 'wrapper' around the 'longer article' that we're hosting on github, and simply linking to this external article in the research note ...

Yea. Do that. 

Your Kayak note was one of the more interesting and appropriate notes ever at Public Lab. But the three people who care about all that R code are three of the people who are quite capable of following a link to Github to find the code and other tedious details.  Don and Jeff have some important ideas about what publishing at Public Lab could become. But today Public Lab research notes are mostly a few paragraphs and pictures that explain research progress.  The explanation part is crucial. A couple of paragraphs that allow more people to understand what you did, what is novel, why it matters, and how they can participate could add great value to the Kayak note. The code blocks really got in the way of my understanding what your point was. But the experiment was totally worth it to see Bryan get all riled up.

So in addition to the stuff you guys are talking about, the other issue is; If you could have the perfect Public Lab publishing system that did all the gitty backend stuff, would Public Lab research notes be any more useful to the current audience? 

On the other hand, the ability to put Shiny apps in research notes will be a huge crowd pleaser. I’m all in for Shiny.
