---
cid: 9914
node: [Research Note Workflows](../notes/donblair/08-11-2014/research-note-workflows)
nid: 11035
created_at: 2014-08-12 14:41:50 +0000
timestamp: 1407854510
uid: 422528
author: [walkerjeffd](../profile/walkerjeffd)
---

Wow, ok didn't realize this would ruffle so many feathers. I'll try to briefly explain more why I wanted to do this.

1. **reproducibility** - for the riffle, we wanted to take an open science approach where all the data, code, software, hardware, everything, is available. using github seemed to make the most sense (though we need a different way to store the raw data eventually, and probably figures too). we thought this would be useful for helping others learn how to program the riffle and analyze the data. but this doesn't require using iframes, we can just link to the repo from the note. but demonstrating how to integrate an rmarkdown or an ipython notebook into a research note is something we thought others could benefit from. 
2. **collaboration** - using github as the central backend allows Don and I to work on these analyses collaboratively (we haven't yet, but that's the idea). I currently can't edit any of Don's notes. maybe that's a feature you're working on though.
3. **ownership** - this is maybe a sticky issue, but here's my perspective. i'm starting to put a lot of work into the development of the riffle, and am going to be generating a lot of these more technical analyses. if i only wrote these up on PL, then they'll only exist in the PL system (as far as i know, there's no way to download an archive of all my PL content). but if PL looses funding or for some reason shuts down, then I'll lose all that work. Thinking long term, will PL be around in 10, 20, 30 years? In other words, I want to keep my own local copies of these analyses which I could maybe do by copying and pasting the note source code out of the PL editor, but that's not a robust solution.

[@cfastie](/profile/cfastie) - good points. When I wrote the original document I wasn't thinking about putting it on public lab so I left the code in there and didn't write it in a public lab style with as much background as I should. But I just updated that [kayak note](http://publiclab.org/notes/walkerjeffd/08-11-2014/kayak-deployment-on-8-7-2014) so the code is no longer shown and added a note at the top that links to the source code for those who are interested. I also added a little introduction in the public lab note (outside the rmarkdown file). I will say that I think there is some value to the code being there. I've gotten a couple people tell me they like seeing the code because it made them realize that maybe R isn't so hard and they can use this code to learn how to do things like create maps, etc. My actual motive with this analysis was to get [@donblair](/profile/donblair) to start learning R, which is best done by example where he can read the code. And that seems to have worked. But I think linking to the source code is probably good enough. And I'm not sure what your asking about regarding the usefulness of research notes to the current audience. which audience? Like I said before, the whole reason to try and get these analyses into PL is to engage with the community (more on this below).

[@warren](/profile/warren) - yeah, I realized the issue with searchability, but I thought maybe by adding an 'abstract' to the top, using tags and having the title would be good enough for supporting searching. REST API seems like the most logical solution here to me (though would take more work on both your end and my end). The issue is figures, but maybe I could use S3 or something to do that before uploading a note via the API.  As for long vs short notes, I see your point for sure. But for developing the riffle, there will be quite a few long notes like the kayak deployment. Theres just too much interesting stuff to be done with all the data we collect, and maybe it doesn't all need to go on PL, but Don and I want to put all of our work out in the open (successes and failures). But maybe PL just isn't the right place for all that (more on this below).

[@btbonval](/profile/btbonval) "Yes, we could do iframes. Jeff might even add it just to end this conversation. But in the long run, it creates so many more problems than it solves. And then the small team has to deal with those as well." - well you already support iframes as [we've demonstrated](http://publiclab.org/notes/walkerjeffd/08-11-2014/kayak-deployment-on-8-7-2014) with zero work on your part. so more of a question whether you'll prevent iframes. in looking though blog posts and stack overflow Q/As on the evilness of iframes, it seems theres just a lot of differing opinion. but i get the impression they're generally accepted for certain uses along the lines of what we've done here (embedding external documents, maybe the shiny app was a stretch). but in any case i think we can argue all day about iframes, but I don't think that's the central issue here. 

**Summary**

Don and I are realizing that maybe what we're envisioning here for the riffle is not really in line with PL's current vision or community. We're going to be generating **a lot** of these more long-form analyses and maybe PL is not the right place for those. As a scientist/engineer, I've been really excited about using PL as a place where I can publish research through a more accessible platform and for a more general audience than I normally write for. That makes this a really fun project for me, and something I'm excited about. But also a scientist/engineer, reproducibility is really important to me, and things like Rmarkdown and IPython notebook and other literature programming frameworks as well as version control systems like git/github are extremely powerful in this regard. I think they really have the potential revolutionize how science is done in the modern age, and its something I'm trying to pursue using Riffle as a way of demonstrating this. 

So Don and I thought a lot about how we would use PL for this project, and what we can up with is in conflict with the purpose and vision of PL (and it's certainly not our place to try and change that). The iframe hack seemed like a viable way to combine our workflow with the PL ecosystem, but maybe that content doesn't belong here in the first place.

Moving forward, I think what we're going to do is keep most of the riffle development out of the PL system, and build our own github-based system for achieving what we want to do in terms of publishing reproducible analyses and research notes. We'll then write short research notes on PL that link to this external system, and maybe keep an archive of everything on a PL wiki. So effectively we'll use PL as a newsletter to alert the community about new analyses and developments (maybe like a weekly digest), with most of the technical details kept in github. My original impression was that PL was intended more as a place to post your experiments and results (basically like a lab notebook), but I'm now getting the impression that maybe our work is going to be too technical and the workflow we need to produce this research won't fit in the PL ecosystem. Its simply to burdensome to generate all these analyses with the online markdown editor. And we realize that to build in the features needed to do this new kind of science would put far too much strain on the PL developers and just opens up too many cans of worms. Iframes seemed like a viable way to do this without requiring anything from the PL developers, so we went with it.  But if these types of analyses don't really belong here anyway, then we can move them offsite into our own system.

[walkerjeffd](../profile/walkerjeffd) replying to: [Research Note Workflows](../notes/donblair/08-11-2014/research-note-workflows)

