---
cid: 9922
node: [Research Note Workflows](../notes/donblair/08-11-2014/research-note-workflows)
nid: 11035
created_at: 2014-08-12 15:52:56 +0000
timestamp: 1407858776
uid: 43651
author: [donblair](../profile/donblair)
---

Wohooo!  Okay, so I think this is one of those examples of an online conversation that is really rich in content, and has generated a lot of great ideas to work through ... and which is best continued via a 'live' conversation (Skype, Hangout, in-person) to brainstorm further.  

Maybe we could reserve an 'open hour' to talk about some of these ideas?  It could range from the philosophical / long-term "changing the way that scientific publishing is done" (whee!), to the nitty-gritty, short-term "how best to do highly technical collaborative development through publiclab.org".  

And just to quickly elaborate on [@walkerjeffd](/profile/walkerjeffd) 's last (really thoughtfully written) comment -- what he and I started out discussing over the last few days is how best to publish the particularly technical development work we've been doing on publiclab.org -- really, just optimizing the workflow for pushing that development out to the Public Lab community.  (Sorry -- we then also got giddy about changing the way that scientific research is communicated, in general -- but that's really a larger, longer-term conversation to have over beers, probably). 

And it sounds to me that we're starting to hone in (through the course of these comments, with great input from everyone) on a nice approach, here -- as [@cfastie](/profile/cfastie) had suggested, for some of the more long-form notes or 'reports' -- especially ones that include working R code examples, special formatting, and etc -- the best workflow might be to simply post a summary explanation of this document as a research note on publiclab.org, with a link to the document on github.   

It occurs to me now:  this is really just the same arrangement as what's already being implemented in any of the highly technical projects in the Public Lab community:  for spectralworkbench.org, mapknitter.org, or infragram.org, there's an associated github repo that tracks changes, and allows for project management (via issues).  Git is a system that has emerged as an incredibly useful tool for these things, and Public Lab is using github.com because it would be silly to try to recreate all of that functionality separately. So what's happening with the water quality-related development for us right now, I guess, is that we're realizing that e.g. analyzing hydrology data in a consistent, reproducible, scalable way is going to require a similar level of technical infrastructure as e.g. analyzing spectra, knitting and geo-referencing aerial imagery, or manipulating near-infrared imagery on a pixel-by-pixel level.  It's going to be hard to fit some of that into a 'research note' format -- so it might be better to do it on github.  Just as we wouldn't want to cram all infragram.org new code commits, feature requests, and development into research notes:  it's not something that a general reader of publiclab.org is going to want to wade through.   

One idea that just came up, which I really like:  a weekly or bi-weekly summary overview of Riffle development (and Open Water - related development, generally) -- a few paragraphs, with pictures, which describe the most recent developments, provides context, and has links to all of the relevant development and technical documents that have been posted on github.  (This would actually be a neat thing to do for infragram.org,  spectralworkbench.org -- and really all of the Public Lab projects.  And it's already being done nicely, in some form / in the newsletter.  We could just sort of model that, more or less).  That way, someone can read that research note, dig into the relevant documents as they like, and develop the conversation about those documents on publiclab.org ... ?

Anyhoo, more fodder for an in-person convo ... let's schedule one!

[donblair](../profile/donblair) replying to: [Research Note Workflows](../notes/donblair/08-11-2014/research-note-workflows)

