---
cid: 9932
node: [Survey of different kinds of fluorescence spectrometry, optimizing intensity](../notes/warren/08-12-2014/survey-of-different-kinds-of-fluorescence-spectrometry-optimizing-intensity)
nid: 11039
created_at: 2014-08-12 17:41:10 +0000
timestamp: 1407865270
uid: 1
author: [warren](../profile/warren)
---

Interesting -- specific PAHs are (as we've seen in other literature) out of the 400-1000nm range of our device: 

> monoaromatic compounds (benzene, toluene, xylene and
phenols) emit fluorescence between 250 – 290 nm. Two aromatic ring compounds, like
naphthalene, show a fluorescence peak at 310 – 330 nm, phenanthrenes (three aromatic
rings) between 345 – 355 nm and so on (Pharr et al., 1992; Abbas et al., 2006). Pharr et al.
(1992) has shown that, only by using standard fluorescence emission spectra, distinguishing
between 2 brands of gasoline would be impossible.

However, Cartea cites Patra and Mishra (2002a), Cristescu et al. (2009) and Carstea et al. (2009a) to mention that:

> heavy oil, Diesel and engine oil, show fluorescence maxima in the longer
emission wavelength region (420 – 550 nm) while lighter oils, petrol and kerosene, present
peaks mainly in an intermediate wavelength region (310 – 400 nm).

Super duper! Time to read those articles!

Re: aging of samples, also some great leads on p57:

> Deepa et al. (2006) studied the fluorescence signal of transformer oil during its aging
process, which was thermally induced at 100 o C for 31 days. They observed a sudden
dramatic decrease in fluorescence intensity after only 17 days, for raw oil, followed by a
slight increase until day 31. Also, the excitation and emission maxima increased starting
with the 20 th day. Deepa et al. (2006) explained that when transformer oil was degraded, its
acidity increased, resulting an increase in C-O band and C=C double bands.

Ooh, finally, laser-induced fluorescence spectroscopy (LIFS) -- our technique -- is cited:

> Some authors (Burel-Deschamps et al., 2006; Pascu et al., 2001) used absorption spectroscopy and laser induced fluorescence for pesticide monitoring in water. Organochlorurate pesticides in water, crude oil and oil components in water and soil with detection limits of 10 −1 –10 −2 ppm were obtained.

[warren](../profile/warren) replying to: [Survey of different kinds of fluorescence spectrometry, optimizing intensity](../notes/warren/08-12-2014/survey-of-different-kinds-of-fluorescence-spectrometry-optimizing-intensity)

