---
cid: 9933
node: [Research Note Workflows](../notes/donblair/08-11-2014/research-note-workflows)
nid: 11035
created_at: 2014-08-12 17:43:46 +0000
timestamp: 1407865426
uid: 4
author: [mathew](../profile/mathew)
---

[@WalkerJeffD](/profile/WalkerJeffD)
On a technical note, co-editing of research notes is in-development.  Co-authoring was just implemented with a with:[@name](/profile/name) tag, and I think co-editing will be implemented Very Soon Now.
 
There are a few ways to think about "open." In your proceess, you seem to be focusing most heavily on reducing the interface friction between an expert user and viewing/versioning/editing a complete record of all the collection/analysis systems' code for a specific experiment.  "Openness" is defined by the speed of replication.  This is a laudable goal, one that needs more work and could truly change the way science is done.  But I think it this approach will be more robust if you maintain an engagement with a broader participant pool.  

Public Lab has generally taken the position that broad public participation at every stage of the process is "open science" and open-source/accessible/well-versioned code is an instrumental piece of that openness.  The reasoning being that those who do data analysis are not necessarily domain experts on the environment they are examining, and that the assessments of a place done by their current residents, regardless of scientific training, are central to an accurate understanding of environmental science. 

For me, I want to see Riffle data as something portable that can be added to Mapknitter maps as annotations easily, or even embedded and fed in live.  Sensor data next to qualitative markers, georeferenced media, and other place-based information is very powerful, especially in a platform that is broadly accessible. [@justinmanley](/profile/justinmanley) might have some thoughts on that...



[mathew](../profile/mathew) replying to: [Research Note Workflows](../notes/donblair/08-11-2014/research-note-workflows)

