---
cid: 9946
node: [Research Note Workflows](../notes/donblair/08-11-2014/research-note-workflows)
nid: 11035
created_at: 2014-08-12 20:23:22 +0000
timestamp: 1407875002
uid: 43229
author: [btbonval](../profile/btbonval)
---

[@donblair](/profile/donblair) the logout button helps add a few more steps in the way of contributing to the conversation.

I think the concept of a spoiler might suit some of the needs being explored here. Spoilers, by default, are collapsed with a simple indicator that there is "more than you might want to know" if you click on it.

The question of how to embed one document inside another is a bit harder if all documents are living. For example, tools were referenced like spectralworkbench. At present, the output is primarily an image. So you drag and drop that image, done. Same with infragram. But let's go back to this idea of research notes which embed research notes.

Perhaps you write research notes with all the crazy details. In the summary research note that [@warren](/profile/warren) prefers, you could hypertext link the other notes and that solves the problem today. Or maybe you use clever tagging, and the user who wishes to explore the topic further finds everything needed by clicking on a tag for the note.

But maybe tomorrow, we want to explore embedding the detailed research notes inside the summaries, and hiding the content using a spoiler. This is a very complex operation, because both the summary and the detailed note can be independently modified, yet the summary includes the detailed note. So what happens if a user comments on the detailed note? Is that conveyed in the summary note in any way, or does one have to explore the detailed note more than just by way of expanding a spoiler? If someone likes the detailed note, does that mean it should apply to the summary note by proxy? What if the embedded detailed note is removed from the summary? I find myself very perplexed by a lot of these implications when considering how users and the community interacts with notes.

What features are you folks looking for that hyperlinks don't provide?

One possibility is the hover-preview that you see with a lot of advertisements. You put your cursor over a hyperlink (usually some innocuous word) and get a small panel that opens up and previews the spam link content you might see should you click that link. I've only seen it done in the spam context, but a hover-preview-link might help get closer to what you seek with some small form of embedding via preview while still keeping the logical pieces of research notes separate for community engagement.

[btbonval](../profile/btbonval) replying to: [Research Note Workflows](../notes/donblair/08-11-2014/research-note-workflows)

