---
node: Research Note Workflows
author: btbonval
created_at: 2014-08-12 20:31:41 +0000
timestamp: 1407875501
nid: 11035
cid: 9948
uid: 43229
---



[btbonval](../profile/btbonval) replying to: [Research Note Workflows](../notes/donblair/08-11-2014/research-note-workflows)

----
Btw it sounds like, for the moment, we have moved past the idea of portable documents which are worked on outside of Public Lab but may be imported into Public Lab.

I think this is a worthy goal, although I don't think "RESTful API!" is all it would take. Research notes include community engagement, it's more than just the markdown (and images). Comments, authorship (including multiple authorship), and the markdown extensions [@warren](/profile/warren) has written must be at least considered when exporting the note.

Once a note is exported, it can be copied and pasted ad nauseum, changed a little here and a little there. Maybe one copy, independently modified, is submitted back to PL, then another copy, also independently modified, is submitted back to PL. By merely allowing export and import, we create conceptual branching and merging, which gets into the hairy territory which solved by code repos (which [@justinmanley](/profile/justinmanley) recommended). But if a research note is version controlled, then we must ask how does that get imported and exported in a friendly way through a RESTful API? Github does support HTTPS for push/pull, so we might look to them for an example.

Yes, we could hand wave all of these problems. "oh just export strictly the markdown." "oh just replace all the contained markdown on upload." I feel these are hacks which do not sufficiently address the problem created. Maybe I'm incapable of taking baby steps, but I see cans of worms with even these simple hacks which should be dealt with using techniques which more properly address the issues.