---
cid: 9966
node: [Research Note Workflows](../notes/donblair/08-11-2014/research-note-workflows)
nid: 11035
created_at: 2014-08-13 17:13:20 +0000
timestamp: 1407950000
uid: 4
author: [mathew](../profile/mathew)
---

The TL;DR here is I really like the idea of a 'collapse' tag extension to markdown so that code and really tech/replication heavy sections of a note can say "click to expand." .

-----

JWD's github notes are stellar-- a lab notebook layed bare and ready to follow step-by-step. too often in reading research, I get to a point of asking 'what exactly did you do?'  I have experience with getting that woefully wrong, guessing at the actual procedures. (sometimes to positive effect! replication errors FTW-- ask me about balloon making). 

I think the question is how to pack and unpack that info so that is approachable at different interest levels, while not burdensome on the note taker.  I hear a workflow concern of JWD's being, 'do I have to re-write everything? Can't we automate this?'  Reposting and re-editing one's own notes is a drag. we should be able to figure out how to avoid this.  JWD's github posts are an embarassment of riches-- its usually like pulling teeth to get someone to document their process so well and I here I am complaining about it.  But it actually gets hard to read. I think if we illucidate the aesthetics of the notes, their use to different readers, we can move towards a technical solution.

Looking at JWD's github posts there are several types of information interesting to me at different stages of engagement, presented all at once. I want to know that the Riffle tracks to USGS data-- but I'm not an R user-- and seeing notes on the merits of long/short data table formatting and packages for doing it is distracting.  I want to setup my own Riffle -- but it's not in front of me-- I don't really care what the setup is because I'm not working on it.

These interwoven types of information actually makes it hard for me to read the things I want to read, and to catch the notes I need to catch to understand the process.  My eyes go into a "scanning" mode.  Switching my level of engagement while scrolling through the article is problematic.

I would love to see the "look I got this data dragging a Riffle behind my Kayak and it has some anomalies and stuff lets talk about them" note, minus these setup pieces, so I can get an overview before diving into EXACTLY what happened. as mentioned above.  a 'collapse' tag, pushing the really tech/replication heavy sections of a note into a "click to expand" piece would solve this issue. I understand the technical elegance of using a traditional HTML multiple pages approach, but I don't think that makes a complex process like experimental procedure, quantititive, visual, and qualitative analysis more presentable.  it would be tough to split them up.  they aren't really small separate notes.


[mathew](../profile/mathew) replying to: [Research Note Workflows](../notes/donblair/08-11-2014/research-note-workflows)

