---
title: All staff call notes 5 31 2011
tagnames: 
author: warren
path: /wiki/all-staff-call-notes-5-31-2011.md
nid: 309
uid: 1

---

# All staff call notes 5 31 2011

by [mathew](../profile/mathew), [warren](../profile/warren)

June 01, 2011 02:41 | Tags: 

----

[Google Doc](https://docs.google.com/document/d/15zkK1Fe1mBCsrL_cms3ofDoQDQ-wZ8eEWzbiJTTa8Rs/edit?pli=1&hl=en#)

_Liz, Stewart, Shannon, Sara, Adam, Jeff. Mathew was unable to make it but left notes, included at bottom._

Jeff: recap--they were very open about what we could do. Suggestions: tackle 3rd year, expand community work, Shannon--focus more on sites we are in rather than expand--so many things to do in Gulf coast.  Jeff--expand appalachian region?
    Incubation services- parent org to help us get off the ground- physically housed inside another organization- regular meetings with advisors from organizations- professional services- getting people to help with the website- printing process, etc.

timeline: it would be nice if we told them sometime soon what we would do, Catherine also Knight to meet and brainstrom, PDF--professional development forum, John Bracken’s--head of news challenge,

technical suggestions: give money to knight foundation to disperse the money to us, until we are a non-profit.  Shannon: Does this change the relationship with our lawyers doing work Pro Bono--can we talk to that about them now? Jeff: should we incorporate now?  Shannon--good publicity for them. 

Ok with talking to lawyer (Skadden) about KNC- to see if they are still okay in working with us
Liz- ask them to be discreet/confidential
Yes all around (plus Mathew, retrospectively)

When start giving money? june 13th final board approval, Liz: July 1 is normal fiscal start date. should we start then? Jeff: stewart and shannon funding ended today, don’t know yet if support is going to be continued. 

Stewart: should we be concerned that salary wasn’t suggested by Knight?

Matt: should we still do the linberg grant? Jeff thinks yes--we need to be more ambitious about what we tackle.

Sara: Does c4fcm know? Yes.  What should our continued relationship be? They want to still be involved, John Braken thinks we should shore up this relationship--they see it as a spin off.  Knight likes that we have a relationship. Jeff: could c4 continue paying a couple of salaries. Liz: overlaps happening in NYC, Chris is coming to Parson’s for the fall, Cesar may be teaching class in spring--sorry i suck at spelling (haha)--Liz plan hackathon in boston? Lots of connections happening--can we have small amount of travel money for the summer?  East Harlem thermal insulation issues, wetland restoration--so many projects approaching her. Open agriculture project also bubbled.  Jeff--also talking about a hackathon-Especially in August.  

Are we all traveling for C4 conference?--Stewart and Matthew can’t go--Knight can’t cover everybody from every team, did want it to seem unfair inviting all of us.

John Bracken is new--relationship with C4 seems to be good.

- what to do with the extra money - lengthen the grant, 3 years was a suggestion of theirs

Adam--we could write our own job description?
Also need to fill out the survey of what we would like to do. Adam will probably be Faculty at WCU in a month or two.  He can be a PI on grants. 
Sara--could move
Shannon--could use help in the gulf coast
Jeff--knight foundation suggests fund a position at C4 for us, change how it is accounted to strength official relationship, also said or for some organization.
Leverage grant to strengthen relationships with organizations--Parson’s, RISD, MIT, Tulane--start research groups.

Adam--do we stretch it out over 4 years? 
Liz--we can be better at tool development if we can bring in someone to handle to the website. 
Also possibility of stipend and equipment to collaborators. 
Travel - Rotate who goes on trips, take turns on international travel, take people who may not have the opportunity to travel abroad (community members)
- new take on PT/FT?  seems like we still have a tentative 4/3 split.
- start dates for positions--Describe 12 months starting July 1st, commentary on what we would be doing, milestones, what would your distribution of work be?
- equipment or other spending this summer? site tools, some individual gear, space funds, pop-up lab
- distributing information about this award 
- tell the lawyer and our three board members
- press release!  

integrate Mathew's comments:  My focus is on making this money work for three years, whatever changes we make should be in light of that: no preference on changing pt/ft.  let people get the positions they want on pay: move to "plan c" pay in budget? health insurance? 