---
title: pDR-1500
tagnames: air-quality, dust, silica, pm, particle-sensing, pm-monitoring, pm-sensing, method, oil-and-gas, pdr-1500, air-sensors, method:oil-and-gas, particle-sensor
author: mathew
path: /wiki/pdr-1500.md
nid: 13940
uid: 4

---

# pDR-1500

by [mathew](../profile/mathew), [gretchengehrke](../profile/gretchengehrke)

February 17, 2017 20:42 | Tags: [air-quality](../tag/air-quality), [dust](../tag/dust), [silica](../tag/silica), [pm](../tag/pm), [particle-sensing](../tag/particle-sensing), [pm-monitoring](../tag/pm-monitoring), [pm-sensing](../tag/pm-sensing), [method](../tag/method), [oil-and-gas](../tag/oil-and-gas), [pdr-1500](../tag/pdr-1500), [air-sensors](../tag/air-sensors), [method:oil-and-gas](../tag/method:oil-and-gas), [particle-sensor](../tag/particle-sensor)

The pDR-1500 is Thermo Scientific's proprietary real-time [PM monitor](/wiki/pm-monitoring). It is an [optical PM](/wiki/optical-pm) system with a [filter for gravimetric calibration](/wiki/filter-pm#Filter-based+PM+monitors). The name stands for personal Data Ram.


It can be equipped with a single-stage cyclone [impactor](/wiki/filter-pm#Impactors) for filter-based calibration of a single category of PM: PM10, PM4, PM2.5, or PM1. 

## Operating the pDR-1500

The pDR-1500 is designed to provide real-time personal exposure information. It can be operated at any angle and even clipped to a belt. the pDR-1500 isn't the easiest accessory to wear, however, at 1.2kg (2.5 lbs).

Filters can be acquired from and sent back to Chester LabNET for gravimetric analysis & calibration at $20/each:

>Chester LabNET, 12242 SW Garden Place, Tigard OR 97223. Phone: 503.624.2183

#### Consumables:

* four AA Batteries
* one 37mm fiberglass filter every 24/hours
* calibration once/year

It is recommended to start each 24-hour period with fully charged or new AA batteries and a new 37mm fiberglass filter, whether or not filter-based calibration will be used during the monitoring period.

## Who operates the pDR-1500?
the pDR-1500 is used by a variety of environmental monitoring groups, both for direct real-time monitoring and to [calibrate other real-time monitors](/wiki/optical-pm#Comparative+tests). the EPA uses the pDR-1500 in their [Village Green](https://www.epa.gov/air-research/village-green-project) monitoring project.

## Public Lab's pDR-1500
Public Lab has acquired a pDR-1500 available for loan.  It was produced in 2011 and is in need of an updated calibration.

pDR-1500 Serial # 0115247955

## Activities

[activities:pdr-1500]