---
title: "Staff call notes 2 24 2012"\ntagnames: ''
author: warren
path: /wiki/staff-call-notes-2-24-2012.md
nid: 850
uid: 1

---

# Staff call notes 2 24 2012

by [warren](../profile/warren)

February 24, 2012 21:48 | Tags: 

----

Friday February 24, 2012

###Collaborations###

* AS220-workshop, dinner talk, summer Public Laboratory research group, printing circuit board there. 
* East Harlem Tutorial Program - Sara - contact with Jennifer. 
* P&C and Nadya’s thermal flashlight circuit designs--winterization investigations.
* H2S collaboration at URI- fume hood and glove box
* kirk at RPI interested in studying us? encourage him to do a march madness event and to talk to mat.

###Recent & Upcoming events###

* 2010 google summer of code deadline in 2 weeks, Mentor apps due March 9 
  * http://publiclaboratory.org/wiki/gsoc-2012 - filling out our mentor app is priority-sara-like to see if we can get a wellwatch intern too? Let me know how to proceed? 
* SF I Am Crime: Art on the Edge of Law! http://www.somarts.org/iamcrime/
* SXSW-- what tools to demo, how many fights/helium
  * support- feed contacts for mapping back to other people
  * how to get people to stick through mapping part, or how to *matchmake cartographers with those who need map stitching*
    * Stewart put email out to listserve
  * Sara will make thermal flashlight how to make video? 
* Shan at Tulane env. law summit and Gulf Gathering next week
* March Mapping Madness- Vancouver, Austin, NY, Boston, DC, Philly (sara could travel)...email out to GM mailing list and surveys for interest (sam lead in Socal)- organize on the website- add to March Madness page- get involved box- so someone can just sign up: for real world, leading a workshop, or virtual meetup
* Virtual meet-ups for how to stitch, also for matchmaking mappers with needy groups, Stu lead
  * announce, make cohesive webpage for “get involved” 
  * create a web form or Doodle to gauge interest
 * possible NYC location partner StudioX
    * need: e-mail lists and surveys-
    * identify people who want mapping matchmaking, help them identify collaborative sites
   * Shannon and Stu coordinate on this with Mat in the loop
* Spectrometer presentation at Parsons March 5, theme of “Thingness of Energy” - Jeff help needed. WellWatch - Sara. 
* RPI conference on citizen science March 15 deadline
  * I would be interested too. -mathew / stewart
* Sara/Shannon update on UCL citizen cyber science conference
  * got “most interesting student project” award.

###Fundraising###

* Kickstarter:
  * http://publiclaboratory.org/wiki/balloon-mapping-kit-retail - list of things going into each kit- Mathew set up meeting with Topher
* Thursday next week

###Public Archive/Publications###

* Grassroots Mapping Forum:
  * planning sections: http://www.google.com/url?q=https%3A%2F%2Fdocs.google.com%2Fdocument%2Fd%2F1nv8Xo5jlNTj--7_r_6ndbjEAMV3lUY-b2U-6IHn7zZI%2Fedit (because this gets copied into a wiki page, we need full URLs)
* Look into nonprofit shipping/mailing prices
* Editor from list, ask Manpriya
  * or divide up editorial for the three sections (editorial & notes, site feature, tool feature)
* Should we change the name? long term consideration.

###Web###

* Stewart/adam date naming convention
* MapMill - 
  * FTP issues and generally issues related to sysadmin need (only 2-3 gb of space on the server)
  * need for MapMill admins (there is *no other way* to get images into mapmill and has never been)
  * For GSoC?
    * propose Amazon S3-backed bulk upload based on a hypr3d-style uploader, visual archive. (s3 is pretty expensive), 
    * chain of custody (perhaps not get too ambitious) (from the SD card to the server)
    * image checksumming that you take a picture of?
* Github feature request for site profile attributes, what tools you know
* Archive for stories?
* Thermal Flashlight wiki gardening?
* Github for software issues, web@ alternative in footer
* WellWatch Update- waiting for Lorrie 

###Organization###

* Mat and Adam- gone time, contacts, etc
* SIP reporting?  writeup?
* NYC general meeting on Tuesday
* do we have a digikey account? make a (wiki) page?
  * or futureelectronics, adafruit, sparkfun (mathew)
* Insurance dammit :(
