---
title: Staff call notes 12 19 11
tagnames: 
author: warren
path: /wiki/staff-call-notes-12-19-11.md
nid: 651
uid: 1

---

# Staff call notes 12 19 11

by [liz](../profile/liz), [warren](../profile/warren)

December 19, 2011 20:05 | Tags: 

([Google Doc link](https://docs.google.com/document/d/15zkK1Fe1mBCsrL_cms3ofDoQDQ-wZ8eEWzbiJTTa8Rs/edit?pli=1&hl=en#))

_Sara, Shannon, Liz, Jeff, Stewart_

###Fundraising###

* VOSS- left off with Sara’s email: can focus just on Public Lab- need a theoretical framework that we are trying to illustrate- Recursive publics from Kelty- how we do this successfully with each of our tools- Sara and Shannon
* NSF ISE- Sara finished section rewrite, diagrams, Jeff? Couple more hours and should be good to go- get ready for 5:30 today for Rupal

###Collaborations###

* Thermal flashlightarama - 3 workshops in 2 weeks, next steps with EHTP and Gowanus water.
 * Ninya loepsky, boston-area green network, home insulation, Global Green- Nola and Cali- home insulation workshops, Green Opportunities, Anastasia in Asheville
* New Town Creek - sum of contacts with RiverKeeper-bacterial strain- asked if PLOTS could test for it.
 * new standards for making assertions about what our data documents.
 * wiki page or research note on each trip? example: http://publiclaboratory.org/wiki/newtown-creek
 * need to cultivate community around New Town Creek for ongoing investigation.
 * need to document Gowanus near Infrared image analysis process--through email with eymund.
* overall: need to inaugurate site-based research meetings (not just data collection), example: Gowanus.
* Shannon and Sara meeting at 1 today with Kathy Session?
* Butte update
* Rio - hold off on talking to Joe at UNICEF, what about Ed Jezierski at INSTEDD?
* Retail. Kickstarter possible Jan delay
* Uganda via UNGlobal Pulse, main contact is Christopher Fabian <cfabian@unicef.org>. Leif still interested in contracting through Public Lab. - Shannon talk to him about this and EPA.
* Parsons collab for the fall with graduate

###Recent & Upcoming events###

* Thursday Website “gardening” 1-3 EST
 * open hardware licensing for tools
 * clean up pages - create a Tool page template -
   * Context, need
   * Concise desc. of tool
   * Parts and price list
   * Goals, next steps towards them
 * create formating for pages--research notes and data analysis
 * interlink related pages
 * document collaborators

###Public Archive/Publications###

* Just updates, don’t need discussion:
* Liz and Shannon working on Antipode
* Stu/Shan blog for Thursday for PBS
* Sara/Shan 4S journal piece

###Web###

* gardening session (above in Events)
* Contributors, github-graphs on website
* kickstarter

###Organization###

* Workers comp- finishing this up- what do we need done?
 * Stu- hearing back from inquiry
 * Sara- no paperwork yet from RI
 * Jeff- go through list of details to fill through form
 * Liz- Sara, emailed 1st step is fill out web form, need Liz address, etc
 * Mathew/Adam- need to check with them
* holidays
 * Jeff gone 24th-5th
* health insurance