---
title: Staff call notes 5 10 2012
tagnames: 
author: warren
path: /wiki/staff-call-notes-5-10-2012.md
nid: 1951
uid: 1

---

# Staff call notes 5 10 2012

by [warren](../profile/warren)

May 10, 2012 22:00 | Tags: 

----

Thursday May 10, 2012

###Jeff###
* last 3 IR cams this week (end of message)
* consolidating and building out web tasks in github
* plots-nyc list? happy to make it

###Sara###
* Goals
* In pursuit of planning and executing H2S experiments I talked with SJCA and OGAP--they are eager to begin with working the test strips--over 600 wells in their area producing H2S, I interviewed a field researcher from Penn State who has used the photostrips assay, he has agreed to review our experimental design. I am in the middle of making research notes about the--the researcher is happy to share his experience with public lab. I made strips for the copper pipe assay.  We have also begun experimental design research
* In pursuit of next steps on indoor air mapping--I sat down with Byeongwon to make circuit diagrams for all is work and upload his code--his language barrier makes him hesitant to share and write notes himself.
staff role to assist research note production?--Organizer list role? We’re doing another round of field testing tonight and I’m meeting with the Asthma Files RPI research group tonight about next steps on this project.
* Research/outreach: In order to begin research for the information society paper--I researched, prepared and practiced a talk for SCA.
* In order to improve our publication and research process I reviewed Dosemagen and Warren’s paper “Mapping Grassroots” and engaged staff in a discussion of ethics around publication and research practices.
* I started work on a diagram for the tools research process and am behind on getting that working group going.
* Sys admin--I have tried multiple times to get in touch with Chris.
* Admin--receipts review
* Make Magazine update-we will be included in a brief review in the magazine. The journalist is interested in reporting further on us-making either roomba adaption or thermal flashlight. She is in San Francisco, I directed her to Stewart. 
* Fundraising--investigation of foundation LOI

###Liz###
* absent

###Shannon###
* Same as Tuesday, prep for Sunday and Monday
* bookkeeper/admin job description and vote, details coming soon
* quickbooks nonprofit for accounting (remote access?)

###Adam###
* absent

###Stewart###
* Lumicon raster analysis, ongoing for tomorrow!
* Closer to a SF Exploratorium workshop, I proposed centering it around wind testing with multiple tethers and create a kingfisher and they like the idea. But what to charge, and how to show them how they could join the community, the two questions I am working on.

###Mathew###
* GM Forum writeup and kickstart
* future of development in kites and balloons write up with retail in mind
* reimbursements-- can I add them now, or should I still wait (shannon?), wepay, etc.

###Questions###
* Rain Minn call regarding chain of custody--Shannon email Bobby. 
* Need a clearer idea of the Brown position- how that will be structured, esp. so we can start thinking about if/when we can hire a fundraiser- when can we expect more information?
* Publication/Research Discussion

###Meetings###
* Fundraising--sara to fill out.

###Miscellaneous###

###Newsletter suggestions###
* Sara talk at SCA meeting?
* Uploading of code and circuit diagrams for indoor air quality mapping?
* New Mildmay site
* Chris Fastie’s great post!!! 
* IR cam documentation coming together: http://publiclaboratory.org/wiki/dual-camera-kit-guide
* Printing http://publiclaboratory.org/notes/gonzoearth/5-10-2012/print-maps-plots-archive-and-mapknitter
* Greetings San Francisco Bay Area Mapper,
This Sat 5/12 some of us are meeting at Delores Park at 1PM. Come and join us to learn about balloon mapping and possibly try some new things as we see if we can map the park.

Discussion on paper:

1) inform research note authors, include in discussion?
2) anonymize participants if desired?
3) make sure not to include previously written PLOTS work, or cite properly?

Resolution: Sara will provide annotated draft of paper. Jeff and Shannon will review annotations and make revisions. A decision needs to be made about whether the paper will be published as Public Lab or as individual authors.