---
title: "Story Of Oil Field Worker's Death linked to VOCs"

tagnames: 'hydrogen-sulfide-sensing'
author: sara
path: /notes/sara/7-18-2012/story-oil-field-workers-death-linked-vocs.md
nid: 2864
uid: 8
cids: 
---

# Story Of Oil Field Worker's Death linked to VOCs

by [sara](/profile/sara) | July 18, 2012 15:39

July 18, 2012 15:39 | Tags: [hydrogen-sulfide-sensing](/tag/hydrogen-sulfide-sensing)

----

Lacey Bergsing left this story as comment to <a href="http://www.texassharon.com/2012/07/06/deadly-flowback-vapors-killed-21-year-old-montana-man/">TXSharon's Blog</a> about the death of her fiancee <a href="http://bismarcktribune.com/bakken/hydrocarbon-poisoning-blamed-for-n-d-oil-worker-death/article_71b31cc6-c716-11e1-88e1-001a4bcf887a.html">due to exposure to hydrocarbon fumes</a>. Dustin Bergsing was a Marathon employee working in flowback operations. He was working 24 hour shifts alone when he died:

I, Lacey Bergsing, am the Fiancee and mother of Dustin's Bergsing's
daughter. There are more than just gases that need to be looked in to when
it comes to the safety of the workers in all aspects of the oil fields.
Dustin was always telling me things that he had to go through out there on
the sites and the majority of them should be considered illegal!!!! When
Dustin was hired on with this job the employers made the job seem extremely
accomodating. He was provided a brand new trailer to reside in on site,
there was another employee on the site splitting the shift with him and
everything was easy as pie. But, as the weeks went on the living conditions
worsened considerably. The last trailer Dustin resided in at the site that
he died had no heat or water. The propane did not work and by the time of
his death he was the only worker on the site. This made it so that he was
working 24 hour shifts for 2-3 weeks at a time. You don't even know how
exhausted he was only being able to get sleep at half hour intervals for up
to 3 weeks. Yes the pay was good but the lack of sleep was  almost
unbearable for him and you are not allowed to leave the site during  those
weeks so if you run out of food, drinking water, etc. He was S.O.L. It
should be law and mandatory that there are at least 2 workers on each site
so the 24 hours in a day can be divided. Not only would that enable workers
to get some rest, there would be someone else in case of emergency. Dustin
clocked in at 10:00 pm the night he died. The overflow tank alarm went off
at 10:10pm. That means Dust died somewhere in those ten minutes. After the
alarm went off it took over 5 hours for anyone to arrive to see what was
going on. If there had been someone else there, who knows maybe my husband
could have been saved. And as for the gases that the workers' deal
with...Each site is deemed clean or dirty before flow back testers are sent
out there. If it is rated clean the worker is NOT required to wear a mask
while gauging the tanks. It should be law and mandatory for the workers to
be wearing a mask EVERYTIME the go out to gauge the tanks no matter if the
well is deemed clean or not. The point is there are so so so many things
that the companies are not doing to keep their employees' safe on the job.
Why??? because they are cheap and treat their employees' as if they are
expendable. Thank you for your time and I wish you the best in your goals.
-Lacey Bergsing
