---
title: "Invitation to Gardeners and Farmers"

tagnames: '5bf, five-borough-farm, urban-ag, community-garden, food'
author: liz
path: /notes/liz/2-7-2013/invitation-gardeners-and-farmers.md
nid: 5915
uid: 7

---

![](https://publiclab.org/sites/default/files/FiveBoroughFarmLogo.jpg)

# Invitation to Gardeners and Farmers

by [liz](../../../profile/liz) | February 07, 2013 21:32

February 07, 2013 21:32 | Tags: [5bf](../tag/5bf), [five-borough-farm](../tag/five-borough-farm), [urban-ag](../tag/urban-ag), [community-garden](../tag/community-garden), [food](../tag/food)

----

January 2013

To the Community Gardens and Urban Farms of New York City:

Every year, our city’s gardens and farms generate a wealth of benefits
for the eight million-plus New Yorkers living across the five
boroughs. Working together, we create beautiful and inviting spaces
for our friends and neighbors to relax and reconnect with a little
slice of nature. We grow thousands of pounds of vegetables and fruits
that help us all stay a little healthier. We produce compost, reuse
rainwater, start up farmer’s markets, share our knowledge and bit by
bit we make New York a more sustainable city. We help new generations
discover the pleasure that comes from nurturing plants, growing food,
and working alongside friends of all ages.

Despite all the good things that come out of our hundreds of gardens
and farms, few New Yorkers truly understand the value we bring to the
city. We sometimes struggle to precisely describe all the great things
we do.

We’re writing to invite you to take part in a new initiative that will
start to change all that. Five Borough Farm is an ongoing initiative
that is helping farmers and gardeners, City officials, and other
stakeholders understand and weigh the benefits of urban agriculture.
Current efforts of the project aim to help farmers and gardeners
measure the benefits that come out of their gardens, allowing them to
tell meaningful stories about the value of their work. Throughout the
2013 growing season, we will work with a small team of top-notch
gardeners to accomplish three basic goals:

1. Creating a set of easy-to-use and inexpensive garden data collection tools;

2. Collecting basic data about garden productivity and participation
for one season; and

3. Sharing the results of our work together with other gardeners and farmers.

We have a small stipend of $200 to support the time and effort you put
into participating in Five Borough Farm this year. We also hope you’ll
use the data you collect to tell funders, policymakers, and the
general public about the good work you do, helping you access more
support for your farm or garden in the years ahead.

Participants will represent a specific farm or garden in New York City
and must have the support of their organization’s leadership to get
involved. Our work together will include the following tasks:

1. Participating in a one-day workshop in March 2013 [hosted in either
Brooklyn or the Bronx]. The workshop will be a space for us to develop
tools and methods to collect data about them number of pounds of food
produced in our gardens and the number of hours people spend working
there during the 2013 growing season.

2. Field testing the tools and methods we develop in the workshop by
collecting data in our farms and gardens throughout the 2013 growing
season, with support from the Five Borough Farm team.

3. Participating in bi-weekly “check-in” conference calls and optional
monthly in-person meetings to discuss challenges and opportunities and
get support from the Five Borough Farm team.

4. Submitting the data you collect throughout the season to the Five
Borough Farm team. By the end of the project, you will be able to
access detailed reports that summarize the data you and others have
collected with us. The reports will help you tell a story about the
benefits your garden creates.

Five Borough Farm was launched in 2009 by the Design Trust for Public
Space. It makes a compelling case for increasing resources—from soil
to growing space to funding—to grow urban agriculture throughout the
five boroughs of New York City. Phase I of Five Borough Farm resulted
in a wideranging set of indicators aimed at revealing the benefits
created by urban farms and gardens. Phase II continues our work
alongside gardeners to develop methods for collecting data toward a
limited set of key indicators that came out of Phase I. Both of us
bring an extensive background in community gardening, grassroots
advocacy, and participatory science projects.

If you are interested in participating in Five Borough Farm, please
email cbauer@designtrust.org with the following details:

Your full name, email, and phone number;

The name of the garden or farm you would represent;

A few sentences about your reasons for wanting to participate.

If you have any questions in the meantime, please feel free to email
cbauer [at] designtrust [dot] org to learn more. We look forward to hearing from
you and we hope you’ll consider participating in this groundbreaking
effort to reveal the value of our farms and gardens in New York City.

Sincerely,

 <a href="/people/liz">Liz Barry</a> & <a href="/people/psilva82">Philip Silva</a>

Outreach Fellows

<a href="http://www.fiveboroughfarm.org/">Five Borough Farm project</a>.

<a href="http://designtrust.org/">Design Trust for Public Space</a>.