---
title: "Notes from Tues April 12 staff call"

tagnames: ''
author: warren
path: /notes/warren/4-12-2011/notes-tues-april-12-staff-call.md
nid: 171
uid: 1

---

# Notes from Tues April 12 staff call

by [warren](../../../profile/warren) | April 12, 2011 15:26

April 12, 2011 15:26 | Tags: 

----

Stewart Long, Shannon Dosemagen and I had our bi-weekly meeting today. We reviewed [last weeks list](http://publiclaboratory.org/notes/warren/4-5-2011/notes-tuesday-plots-staff-call), and set out some deadlines and to-dos:

###Deadlines###

* KNC - 15th
* FOSS4G - 15th

###This week###

* list of equipment for C4
* we can start doing the data portal site with basic fields (stewart/jeff)
* appalachian areas of interest - 
  * **skytruth contact?**
  * http://appalshop.org - Jim Wiley?
  * Rock Creek? R. Goodwin, also... Bill Gore?
* chrome on mac knitter failed -- couldn't get it to load base data.
  * giving it a first location - doesn't seem to accept lat/lon

###Additional To-do###

* front page changes - adding a slideshow or accordion thing to shuffle through our active projects after showing the first "panel"
* website feedback (shannon will send to Jeff)
  * what's the call to action? the prompt? donate? can they be part of it?
* choose next set of posters: round 2 will be 3 in a batch, maybe at 500 quantity
  * http://publiclaboratory.org/wiki/maps - we need to choose one more map for round 2
* Budget: up to 6-week fieldwork sessions for close work with a community
* from our academic members, what flexibility for travel/in-depth work comes up in the summer months?

##Future work##

* logbook
* FOSS4G - April 15 abstract deadline
* video tutorials - contacting kristian hansen? and finding video funding...
* could membership contributions be redefined -- with more concrete returns? related to open source?

Next meeting at 10AM Eastern Friday, April 15th -- email team@publiclaboratory.org to participate!